.TH arc 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.SH NAME
.B arc
\- draws a circular arc
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "arc(x, y, radius, startang, endang)"
.B "Coord x, y, radius;"
.B "Angle startang, endang;"
.IP 
.B "arci(x, y, radius, startang, endang)"
.B "Icoord x, y, radius;"
.B "Angle startang, endang;"
.IP
.B "arcs(x, y, radius, startang, endang)"
.B "Scoord x, y, radius;"
.B "Angle startang, endang;"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine arc(x, y, radius, stang, endang)"
.B "real x, y, radius"
.B "integer*4 stang, endang"
.IP 
.B "subroutine arci(x, y, radius, stang, endang)"
.B "integer*4 x, y, radius, stang, endang"
.IP 
.B "subroutine arcs(x, y, radius, stang, endang)"
.B "integer*2 x, y, radius"
.B "integer*4 stang, endang"
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure arc(x, y, radius: Coord;" 
.br
.B	startang, endang: Angle);
.IP
.B "procedure arci(x, y, radius: Icoord;" 
.br
.B	startang, endang: Angle);
.IP
.B "procedure arcs(x, y, radius: Scoord;" 
.br
.B	startang, endang: Angle); 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B arc
draws a circular arc.  The parameters of an arc are the
center point (\f2x,y\f1), radius (\f2radius\f1), starting angle
(\f2startang\f1), and ending angle (\f2endang\f1).  The
angle of the arc is measured from the positive \f2x\fP 
axis and specified in 
integral tenths of degrees (e.g., 90 degrees equal 900 tenths of degrees).
Positive angles
describe counterclockwise rotations.  Since an arc is
a 2-D shape, these routines have only 2-D forms.
The arc is drawn in the \f2x-y\fP
plane, with \f2z\fP=0, and uses the current color, linestyle, linewidth, 
and writemask.
It is drawn counterclockwise from \f2startang\f1 to \f2endang\f1.
For example, an arc from 10 degrees to 5 degrees
(100 to 50 tenths of degrees) is almost a complete circle.  After 
.B arc
executes, the graphics position is undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
arcf, circ, circf, crv
.sp
.I Programming Guide,
Section 3.7, Circles and Arcs

