.TH blink 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.\".SH\(Dy
.SH NAME
.B blink
\- changes a color map entry at a selectable rate
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "blink(rate, i, red, green, blue) "
.B "short rate, red, green, blue; "
.B "Colorindex i; "
.B "short red, green, blue
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine blink(rate, i, red, green, blue)"
.B "integer*4 rate, i, red, green, blue"
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure blink(rate: Short: color: Colorindex; 
.br
.B	red, green, blue: Short);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B blink
specifies blink rate, color map index, and
red, green, and blue values.  \f2rate\f1 
is measured in terms of vertical retraces.  The system updates the
color located at index \f2i\f1 in the current color map 
according to \f2rate\f1.  For example, if \f2rate\f1 is 3, the color
changes (blinks) every third vertical retrace.
Its value alternates between the original value and the new value
supplied by \f2red\f1, \f2green\f1, and \f2blue\f1.
The length of time between retraces varies according
to the monitor used.  On the standard 60Hz monitor, there are
60 retraces per second.  When using this monitor, a 
rate of 60 would cause the color to change once every second. 
.PP
Up to 20 colors can blink simultaneously, each at a different
rate.  
You can change the blink rate by calling
.B blink
with the same 
.I i 
and a different
.I rate.
To terminate blinking and restore the original color when
\f2i\f1 specifies a blinking colormap entry, call \f3blink\f1
with \f2rate\f1 = 0.
To terminate all blinking colors simultaneously, call
\f3blink\fP with \f2rate\fP=-1.  When you set \f2rate\fP
to -1, the other parameters are ignored.

.ne 15 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mapcolor, color
.sp
\f2Programming Guide\fP, Section 6.2, Color Maps
.SH NOTE
This routine
available only in immediate mode.
