.TH defrasterfont 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.\".SH\(Dy
.SH NAME
.B defrasterfont
\- defines a raster font
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "defrasterfont(n, ht, nc, chars, nr, raster)"
.B "short n, ht, nc, nr;"
.B "Fontchar chars[];"
.B "short raster[];"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine defras(n, ht, nc, chars, nr, raster)"
.B "integer*4 n, ht, nc, nr"
.B "integer*2 raster(nr), chars(4*nc)"
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure defrasterfont(n, ht, nc: Short; var chars: 
.br
.B	Fontchar; nr: Short; var raster: Short);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B defrasterfont
defines a raster font.
\f2n\f1 is an index into
the font table; \f2ht\f1 is an integer that specifies the maximum 
height
of characters in the font in pixels. \f2n\f1 becomes the font's
internal name.  \f2nc\f1 gives the number of characters in
the font and the number of elements in \f2chars\f1 array. 
.PP
\f2chars\f1
contains a description of each character in the font.  The description
includes the height and width of the character in pixels, the offsets from the
character origin to the lower-left corner of the character's
bounding box, an offset
into the array of rasters, 
and the amount to add to the current character position \f2x\fP after
drawing the character.
.PP
\f2raster\f1 is an array of \f2nr\f1 shorts of bitmap information.
It is a one-dimensional array of mask shorts, ordered left to right and
bottom to top.  Mask bits are left-justified in the character's bounding
box. 
.PP
To replace a raster font, specify the index of the previous font
as the index for the new font.
To
delete a raster font, define a font with no characters. 
The default font, 0, is a fixed-pitch font with a height of 16
and width of 9.
Font 0 cannot be redefined.
.PP
When using multiple windows, patterns, cursors, and fonts are
available to all windows.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
charstr, font, getdescender, getfont, getheight, strwidth
.sp
.I Programming Guide,
Section 5.3, Fonts
.SH NOTE
This routine is available only in immediate mode.
