.TH getport 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.\".SH\(Dy
.SH NAME
.B getport
\- creates a graphics window under the window manager 
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "getport(arg)"
.B "char arg[];"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine getpor(arg, length)"
.B "character*(*) arg"
.B "integer*4 length
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure getport(arg: pstring128);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getport
does a graphics initialization and creates a graphics window according to
the constraints specified in 
.B "minsize, maxsize, keepaspect, prefsize, prefposition, stepunit,"
.B "fudge, noport,
and
.B foreground. 
After
they are bound to the graphics window,
these constraints are reset to zero.
.PP
If no constraints are specified 
or if the description is incomplete, the window manager
prompts for the missing information.
If you use the cursor to show the size and location of the
graphics window,
.B getport
puts the graphics program in the background, unless
\f3foreground\f1 is called before
\f3getport\f1.
.PP
When you call
\f3getport\fP,
the pseudo devices INPUTCHANGE and REDRAW are
automatically queued.
.PP
When you call \f3getport\f1 outside the 
window manager,
it creates a standard-size graphics window:
(xmin 0, xmax 1023, ymin 0, ymax 767).
.PP
\f2arg\fP has no function at this time.
.PP
In FORTRAN, there is an extra argument,
.I length,
which is the number of characters in the name string.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
foreground, fudge, keepaspect, maxsize, minsize, noport, prefposition, prefsize,
stepunit,
winconstraints, winopen
.sp
.I Using mex , 
Chapter 2, Programming with mex
.SH NOTE
.B winopen
is preferred over 
.B getport
for manipulating graphics windows.
.sp 
This routine
is available only in immediate mode.


