'\" t
.TH greset 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.\".SH\(Dy
.SH NAME
.B greset
\- resets all global state attributes to their initial values
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "greset()"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine greset"
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure greset;"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B greset
resets all global state attributes to their initial values; you
can call these attributes at any time.
See the following table for a listing of
global state attributes.
.sp
.TS
center box;
cB | cB
l l.
Attribute	Initial Value
_
available bitplanes	all bitplanes\u\s-2\&1\s0\d
backface mode	off
blinking	turned off
color	undefined
color map mode	one map
cursor	0 (arrow)\u\s-2\&2\s0\d
depthcue mode	off
display mode	single buffer	
font	0 \u\s-2\&3\s0\d 
linestyle	0 (solid)
linestyle backup	off
linewidth	1 pixel
lsrepeat	1
pattern	0 (solid)
picking size	10\&\(mu\&10 pixels
reset linstyle	on
RGB color	undefined
RGB writemask	undefined
shaderanges	0,7,0,1023
viewport	entire screen
writemask	all planes enabled\u\s-2\&1\s0\d
zbuffer mode	off
.TE
.sp
.RS
1.  If there are more than 3 bitplane boards installed, 
.br
the number of available bitplanes is set to 12.
.br
2.  The color is set to 1 and the writemask and cursor
.br
are set to 0xfff.
.br
3.  Rasterfont 0 is a Helvetica-like font.
.fi
.RE
.sp
.B greset
puts a 2-D orthographic projection transformation on 
the matrix stack with left, right, bottom, and top set to the
boundaries of the screen.
It also turns on the cursor; ties it to 
MOUSEX
and
MOUSEY;
and unqueues
all buttons, valuators, and the keyboard.
Each button is set to 
FALSE
and untied from valuators.
Each valuator is set to 
XMAXSCREEN/2;
the range is 
0..XMAXSCREEN.
MOUSEY
is set to 
YMAXSCREEN/2
and has range
0..YMAXSCREEN.
.PP
.B greset
also defines certain entry in the color map, as follows:
.sp
.TS 
center, box;
cB | cB | cB s s
cB | cB | cB s s
cB | lB | cI | cI | cI
n l n n n.
Index	Name	RGB Value
\^	\^	_
\^	\^	Red	Green	Blue
_
0	BLACK	0	0	0
1	RED	255	0	0
2	GREEN	0	255	0
3	YELLOW	255	255	0
4	BLUE	0	0	255
5	MAGENTA	255	0	255
6	CYAN	0	255	255
7	WHITE	255	255	255
all others	unnamed	\&	undefined	\&
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gbegin, ginit, winopen
.sp
.I Programming Guide,
Section 2.1, Initialization
.SH NOTE
This routine is available only in immediate mode.
