.TH ortho 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.\".SH\(Dn
.SH NAME
.B ortho, ortho2
\- define an orthographic projection transformation
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "ortho(left, right, bottom, top, near, far) "
.B 	Coord left, right, bottom, top, near, far;
.IP 
.B "ortho2(left, right, bottom, top) "
.B 	Coord left, right, bottom, top;
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine ortho(left, right, bottom, top, near, far)"
.B "real left, right, bottom, top, near, far"
.IP 
.B "subroutine ortho2(left, right, bottom, top)"
.B "real left, right, bottom, top"
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure ortho(left, right, bottom, top, near," 
.B	far: Coord);
.IP
.B "procedure ortho2(left, right, bottom, top: Coord);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ortho
specifies
a box-shaped enclosure in the eye coordinate system that is
mapped to the viewport.  
.I left,
.I right,
.I bottom,
.I top
are the 
\f2x\f1
and
\f2y\f1
clipping planes.  
.I near
and
.I far
are distances along the line of sight from the eye space origin, and
can be negative.  The 
.I z
clipping planes are at
.I \-near
and 
.I \-far.
.PP
.B ortho2
defines a 2-D clipping rectangle.
When you use
.B ortho2
with 3-D world coordinates,
the
z
values are not transformed.
When \f3ortho2\f1 is specified, objects with z values outside
the range \f2-1\(<=z\(<=1\f1 are clipped out.
.PP
Both
.B ortho
and
.B ortho2
load a matrix onto the transformation stack,
overwriting what was there.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
perspective, window
.sp .5v
.I Programming Guide,
Section 4.3, Projection Transformations

