.TH winopen 3G
.rs
.sp -0.28i
.\".SH\(Dy
.SH NAME
.B winopen
\- creates a graphics window
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "long winopen(name)"
.B "char name[];"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "integer*4 function winope(name,length)"
.B "character*(*) name"
.B "integer*4 length
.IP
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "function winopen(name: pstring128): longint;"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B winopen
creates a graphics window. 
Before calling
\f3winopen\fP,
the characteristics 
of the graphics window must be specified by
\f3minsize\fP,
\f3maxsize\fP, 
\f3keepaspect\fP, 
\f3prefsize\fP, 
\f3prefposition\fP, 
\f3stepunit\fP,
\f3fudge\fP, 
and
\f3foreground\fP.
This will initialize graphics the first time it is called in a
program.
.PP
.B winopen
returns a small integer value (\f2gid\f1) identifying the graphics
window, or \-1 if no
additional graphics windows are available.
The new window inherits the state of the current graphics window, and
replaces it as the current window.
If no window characteristics are specified 
or if the description is incomplete, 
the window manager
prompts you for the missing information.
Use the cursor to show the size and location of the
graphics window.
.sp
\f2name\fP specifies the window \f2.deskconfig\fP uses to
refer to the window.
.sp
In FORTRAN, there is an extra argument,
.I length,
which is the number of characters in the name string.
.sp
.B winopen
queues the pseudo devices INPUTCHANGE and REDRAW.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
foreground, fudge, keepaspect, maxsize, minsize, 
noport, prefposition, prefsize, stepunit,
winclose
.sp
\f2Using mex\fP, Chapter 2, Programming with mex
.SH NOTE
This routine is available only in immediate mode under the window manager. 
 
