.TH FINC 1M
.SH NAME
finc \- fast incremental backup 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B finc
[selection-criteria] file-system raw-tape
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Finc\^
selectively copies the input
.I file-system
to the output
.IR raw-tape .
The cautious will want to mount the input
.I file-system\^
read-only to insure an accurate backup,
although acceptable results can be obtained in read-write mode.
The tape must be previously labelled by \f2labelit\fP (see
.IR volcopy (1M)).
The selection is controlled by the 
.IR "selection-criteria" ,
accepting only those inodes/files for whom the conditions are true.
.PP
It is recommended that production of a
.I finc
tape be preceded by the
.I ff
command, and the output of
.I ff
be saved as an index of the tape's contents.
Files on a
.I finc
tape may be recovered with the
.I frec
command.
.PP
The argument
.B n\^
in the \f2selection-criteria\fP which follow is used 
as a decimal integer (optionally signed), where
.BI + n
means
more than
.IR n ,
.BI \- n
means
less than
.IR n ,
and 
.I n\^
means exactly
.IR n .
A day is defined as 24 hours.
.TP "\w'\f3-n\f2 file\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BI \-a " n"
True if the file has been accessed in
.I n
days.
.TP "\w'\f3-n\f2 file\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BI \-m " n"
True if the file has been modified in
.I n\^
days.
.TP "\w'\f3-n\f2 file\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BI \-c " n"
True if the i-node has been changed in 
.I n\^
days.
.TP "\w'\f3-n\f2 file\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BI \-n " file"
True for any file which has been modified more recently than the argument
.IR file .
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
finc \|\-m \|\-2 \|/dev/rdiskusr \|/dev/rtp0
.PP
writes a tape consisting of all files from file-system
.B /usr
modified in the last 48 hours.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cpio(1), ff(1M), frec(1M), volcopy(1M).
.\"	@(#)finc.1m	5.1 of 11/1/83
