.TH MKTAPE 1M
.SH NAME
mktape \- make a generic ``bootable'' tape for system restoration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mktape
[ rootdir ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mktape
creates a ``bootable'' tape suitable for installing a UNIX system on disk
without regard to the contents of the disk.  This is useful for new, blank
disks, or for completely upgrading a disk to the new system.
.PP
The tape contains three files.  The first is a cpio-format archive containing
necessary standalone programs; these can be booted from directly from tape.
The second file is a ``dd'' image of a special UNIX root file system that
runs completely in the usual swap area of the disk (e.g. 
.B md0b or 
.BR ip0b ).
This special system is used only temporarily during the bootstrap process;
the root file system is contained in the lower portion of the swap area, and
the upper portion is used for swapping.  This leaves the normal root and 
user partitions completely free.
The third file is a ``cpio'' image of the new UNIX system.
.PP
The optional
.I rootdir
argument specifies the path name of an alternate root directory to be
used for the new UNIX system cpio images.  The default is ``/''.
.PP
The command assumes the existance of a
.I /stand
directory containing the
.IR mdfex,
.IR ipfex,
and
.I stfex
programs, and the
.I swapfs_dd
file, which is the image of the special swap-area UNIX system.
.PP
To use the tape to restore a system, the standalone program 
.I mdfex
(or
.IR ipfex
for model 1500 and 2500 systems) 
is booted from the first file on the tape, and used to copy the special
swap-area UNIX system to the ``b'' partition of the disk.  The kernel from
this partition is then booted, providing a basic UNIX system with which
to perform the remaining tasks.  New file systems are created on the root
and user partitions, these are mounted, and then the remaining tape
file is is read onto these empty file systems.  Once the new system
is read in, the normal kernel can be booted to bring the new system up.
.SH EXAMPLE
To create a tape containing a copy of the current UNIX system:
.RS
.nf
mktape
.RE
.PP
To restore the system onto a disk, insert the the boot tape into the tape
drive, and enter these commands:
.RS
.nf
.ta 2.5i
tb mdfex	boot the standalone disk program
t	tape-to-disk option
return	default tape file
return	default file system
return	default disk
.RE
.fi
(At this point,
.I mdfex
will position the tape and read the swap-area UNIX system onto the disk.)
.RS
.nf
q	quit mdfex
y	confirm quit
.RE
Now boot the special UNIX system:
.RS
.nf
b md0b:swapunix_md	boot special kernel
newfs md0a	make new root file system
y	confirm new file system
newfs md0c	make new user file system
y	confirm new file system
labelit rmd0a root IRIS	label new root partition
labelit rmd0c usr IRIS	label new user partition
mount /dev/md0a /mnt	mount new root partition
mkdir /mnt/usr	create /usr
mount /dev/md0c /mnt/usr	mount new user partition
cd /mnt	change to root of new system
smt rewind	position to beginning of tape
smt fsf 2	position to new UNIX system
cpio -ivhmud2	read in new UNIX system
.RE
At this point, the new system is installed on the disk.  Reboot the system
and bring it up as usual.  The swap-area UNIX system will be immediately
overwritten.
.SH SEE ALSO
cpio(1), labelit(1M), mkboot(1M), mkdir(1), mount(1M),
newfs(1M), smt(1).
.PP
.I
Mdfex Formatter and Exerciser
.PP
.I 
Ipfex Interphase Formatter and Exerciser
