.TH NET 7P 
.SH NAME
net \- introduction to EXOS 8010 networking facilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3#include <sys/socket.h>\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de _d
.if t .ta .6i 2.1i 2.6i
.\" 2.94 went to 2.6, 3.64 to 3.30
.if n .ta .84i 2.6i 3.30i
..
.de _f
.if t .ta .5i 1.25i 2.5i
.\" 3.5i went to 3.8i
.if n .ta .7i 1.75i 3.8i
..
This section briefly describes the software architecture
of the EXOS 8010 networking facilities.
.PP
All network protocols are associated with a specific protocol family.
Future versions of the EXOS 8010 will be able to support multiple 
protocol families; the current version only supports one. 
A protocol family normally consists of a number
of protocols, one per
.IR socket (3N)
type.  A protocol family is not required to support all socket types;
it may have multiple
protocols supporting the same socket abstraction. 
.PP
A protocol supports one of the \f2socket\f1(3N) abstractions.
Specific protocols are accessed by requesting
the appropriate protocol family and type when creating a socket.
Protocols normally accept only one address format,
usually determined by the inherent addressing structure of the 
protocol family/network architecture.
Certain semantics of the basic socket abstractions are protocol 
specific.  
All protocols support  
the basic model for their particular socket type and may
also provide nonstandard facilities or extensions.
.PP
The EXOS front-end processor's network interface
is the lowest layer of the networking subsystem.  It  
interacts with the actual data link hardware.
This interface can support multiple protocol
families and software address formats. 
.SH PROTOCOLS
The EXOS 8010 currently supports only the Internet protocol family;
its family identifier is
.sp 1
.nf
._d
#define	PF_INET 2	/* internetwork: UDP, TCP, etc. */
.sp 1
.fi
The 
\f2sockproto\f1
structure supplied at socket creation time
should contain the value PF_INET:
.sp 1
.nf
._f
struct sockproto {
	short	sp_family;	/* protocol family */
	short	sp_protocol;	/* protocol within family */
};
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
socket(3N), inet(7P)
