.TH NETLOAD 1M 
.SH NAME 
netload \- download TCP/IP protocol module to EXOS board
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.na
\f3netload [ \-d ] [ \-h \f2host\f3 ] [ \-E \f2ENET_addr\f3 ] [ \-t \f2n\f3 ] [ \-m ] [ \-r \f2n\f3 ]
.br
	 [ \-x \f2n\f3 ] [ \-p \f2n\f3 ] [ \i ] [ \f2net_file\f3 ]\f1
.fi
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2netload\f1 loads \f2net_file\f1
onto the EXOS Ethernet front-end processor board.
\f2net_file\f1 is the EXOS 8010 TCP/IP protocol module,
which is supplied by Excelan in executable object format.
.PP
If no options are specified, \f2netload\f1
configures TCP/IP with the following defaults:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Debug messages are not printed.
.IP \(bu 3
The \f2/etc/hosts\f1 is checked
for a host with the name or alias \f2localhost\f1; this name is used
for the host's Internet address.
.IP \(bu 3
The Ethernet address supplied by the board's is used.
.IP \(bu 3
The on-board TELNET/rlogin server is enabled
and supports eight connections.
.IP \(bu 3
ARP is enabled.
.IP \(bu 3
The maximum number of simultaneous blocking host requests supported 
is 66.
.IP \(bu 3
A minimum of 10 (more on boards with 256 or 512 Kbytes of RAM)
extended memory buffers are allocated.
.IP \(bu 3
The protocol module found at \f2/etc/net/net\f1 is loaded.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
Prints debugging messages.
.TP
\f3\-h\f2\ host
\f1Supplies an explicit host name or Internet address.  If
\f2host\f1 begins with a digit, \f2netload\f1
attempts to convert it to an Internet address in standard ``dot'' format.
Otherwise, it tries to look up a host by this
name in the \f2/etc/hosts\f1 file and uses the Internet address therein.
.TP
\f3\-E\f1\ ENET_addr
\f1Supplies an Ethernet address, which is used instead
of the board's default address (supplied by Excelan).
This should be specified in the customary Ethernet format,
as six hexadecimal numbers separated hyphens (-).
For example, 08-00-14-E0-2A-56.
.TP
\f3\-t\f1\ n
\f1Specifies how many TELNET/rlogin connections
to support via the on-board telnet/rlogin server.
\f2n\f1 must be a number between 0 and 8.
If 0, then the server is disabled and these protocol
servers may be implemented on the host system.
.TP
.B \-m
Disables ARP and enables mapping of Ethernet to Internet addresses
as was done in 4.1BSD (lower three bytes of Ethernet address
become the host part of the Internet address).  The \f3-E\f1
option can be used to emulate another Ethernet vendor's address
block, and the \f3-h\f1
option can be used to specify a network number other than the
default (89 decimal).
.TP
.B \f3\-r\f1 `` n''
Specifies how many simultaneously blocking host requests will
be supported.  
This number cannot exceed 127, and should usually
be at least as great as the maximum expected number of connections.
.TP
.B \f3\-x\f1 `` n''
Specifies how many extended memory buffers will be allocated.
A minimum of 10 are always allocated, regardless of the requested
number.  For 128 Kbyte EXOS boards, specifying a larger number can
improve bulk transfer performance, but may affect operation when
a great many (more than 32) connections are required.
.TP
\f3\-p\f1 n
Sets the level of diagnostic messages from
the board that the host displays.
The level is determined by the value of \f2n\f1, as follows:
.DS
.ta 0.5i 1.0i
.nf
.na
.sp
	\f3Level	Types of Messages\f1

	  1	All
	  2	Errors that are benign (such as retransmissions)
		or more severe (default)
	  3	Errors that are nonfatal (such as bad host-requests)
		or more severe
	  4	Fatal errors, such as NX call failures
.fi
.ad
.DE
.TP
\f3\-i\f1
Disables the timeout feature of \f2netload\f1.
Normally, \f2netload\f1 times out one minute after the board is
reset and the diagnostics are unsuccessful or if an
initialization message to the board is unsuccessful.
The \f3\-i\f1  option is useful for debugging the board's processor or
when using an emulator.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.0i
/etc/net/net	TCP/IP protocol module
.br
/dev/EXOS/xmem	device driver for downloading
.br
/etc/hosts	host name/Internet address database
.SH SEE ALSO
xmem(7), net(7P), hosts(4)
.KE
