.TH SMTIO 7
.SH NAME
smtio \-
.SM UNIX
streaming magnetic tape interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The special file
.I /dev/rmt1
refers to the
.SM UNIX
streaming magtape drive,
which is on the
.SM MULTIBUS
using the
.SM DSD-5217
controller.
The following description applies to any of the transport/controller pairs.
The special files
.IR /dev/rmt1 ,
.IR /dev/rqic ,
and
.I /dev/mt1
are 10000 fci, 450 ft, 45 ips, 45 MByte quarter inch tape streaming drives,
the
.IR /dev/nrqic ,
.IR /dev/nrmt1 ,
and
.I /dev/nmt1
are no rewind versions of the devices.
.I /dev/nrmt1
is the special file meant as the default to \f2smt\fP commands.
Refer to
.IR smt(1)
for the specifications of ioctl commands to manipulate the tape drives.
The files
.IR /dev/rqic ,
.IR /dev/rmt1 ,
and
.I /dev/mt1
are rewound when closed; the others are not.
These files will also be closed by writing a file mark.
The other files will not be rewound upon close.
They will also write a file mark but will be positioned at the file mark for
additional files to be added to the tape cartridge.
.PP
A standard tape consists of a series of 512 byte records
terminated by an end-of-file.
The system makes it possible to treat the tape like any other file.
Seeks do not have their usual meaning and it is not possible
to read or write a byte at a time.  Writing in very small blocks
(less than 5120 bytes) is inadvisable because this tends to create large
record gaps and causes the tape to stop streaming.
The tape drive must then reposition the tape cartridge
for the next write or read.
This causes a slower performance due to the tape moving backwards and forwards
and stopping and starting.
.PP
The
.IR smt
manipulation program discussed above is useful when it is desired to access
the tape in a way compatible with ordinary files.
When foreign tapes are to be dealt with, and especially when long records are
to be read or written, the `raw' interface is appropriate.
The standard format for referring to the `blocked' device is
.IR /dev/mt1 ,
but the `raw' and the `blocked' devices are the same for the
quarter inch streaming tape drive.
The associated files are named
.I /dev/rmt1
and
.I /dev/rqic
but the same minor device considerations as for the regular devices still apply.
A number of ioctl operations are available on raw magnetic tape.
Refer to
.IR smt
for additional information for use with
.IR /dev/nrmt1 .
The following definitions are from
.IR /usr/include/sys/mtio.h :
.PP
.nf
.ta 1i,+1i,+\w'mt_hard_error0;\ \ 'u,+1i,+.1i
/*
 * Structures and definitions for mag tape io control commands
 */

/* structure for MTIOCTOP - mag tape op command */
struct	mtop	{
	short	mt_op;	/* operations defined below */
	daddr_t	mt_count;	/* how many of them */
};

/* operations */
#define	MTWEOF	0	/* write an end-of-file record */
#define	MTFSF	1	/* forward space file */
#define	MTFSR	3	/* forward space record */
#define	MTREW	5	/* rewind */
#define	MTNOP	7	/* no operation, sets status only */

/* structure for MTIOCGET - mag tape get status command */

struct	mtget	{
	short	mt_type;	/* type of magtape device */
/* the following six registers are very device dependent */
	short	mt_hard_error0;	/* hard error byte 0 of status from DSD */
	short	mt_hard_error1;	/* hard error byte 1 of status from DSD */
	short	mt_soft_error0;	/* soft error byte of status from DSD */
	short	mt_at_bot;	/* byte 0xff when tape at bot */
	short	mt_retries;	/* byte number of retries by tape drive */
	short	mt_file_mark;	/* byte 0xff when file mark encountered */
/* end device-dependent registers */
	daddr_t	mt_fileno;	/* file number of current position */
	daddr_t	mt_blkno;	/* block number of current position */
};

/*
 * Constants for mt_type byte
 */
#define	MT_ISTS	0x01	/* Streaming Quarter Inch Tape Drive */

/* mag tape io control commands */
#define	MTIOCTOP	(('m'<<8)|1)	/* do a mag tape op */
#define	MTIOCGET	(('m'<<8)|2)	/* get tape status */

#ifndef KERNEL
#define	DEFTAPE	"/dev/rmtioctl"	/* IOCTL device */
#endif
.fi
.PP
Each
.B read
or
.B write
call reads or writes the next record on the tape.
In the write case the record has the same length as the buffer given.
Each tape write will write one file mark on close and will
either rewind or position itself at the file mark.
Addition writes will be positioned after the file mark and
can be accessed by using the
.IR smt
streaming tape manipulation program.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/nrmt1\ \ 'u
/dev/mt1	Cartridge tape
.br
/dev/rmt1	Cartridge tape
.br
/dev/rqic	Cartridge tape
.br
/dev/nrmt1	Cartridge tape \(em no rewind
.PP
The minor device numbers for each of the above devices to build special files
using
.IR mknod (1)
is based on the standard default minor device number being 0x00.
The minor device number for the
.I /dev/nrmt*
and
.I /dev/nrqic
is 0x01.
The above minor device numbers refer to tape drive 0 of the DSD controller
and at present the hardware only supports this one tape drive.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
smt(1), tar(1), cpio(1)
.SH BUGS
The status should be returned in a device independent format,
but it isn't.
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/a_man/man1/RCS/smtio.7,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:40:45 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	smtio.7,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:40:45  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.3  85/05/03  18:35:44  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide, Version 1.0
.\" 
Revision 1.0  85/05/02  14:50:36  robinf
Initial Rev/Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide,Vers. 1.0

.\" Revision 1.2  84/12/16  00:52:37  bob
.\" Fixed formatting errors.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  84/12/15  13:33:09  bob
.\" Initial revision
.\" 
