.TH SOCKET 7  
.SH NAME
socket \- EXOS communications end point
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sockets are special files that are used to maintain host data structures
for an EXOS 8010 communications end point.
Opening a socket initializes the host data structures
and the corresponding EXOS board data structures.
This process requires cooperation with the \f2/dev/EXOS/admin\f1 device.
.PP
\f2ioctl\f1 calls implement any protocol specific operations.
A \f2read\f1 or \f2write\f1 to a socket device transfers data
to and from a remote process.
.PP
A large number of \f2ioctl\f1 calls apply to sockets and have the
general form
.sp
.nf
#include <sys/soioctl.h>
#include <net/route.h>
ioctl (s, code, arg)
PARAM *arg;
.fi
.sp
The definition of PARAM depends on the codes shown below.
Results, if any, are returned in *arg.
.PP
Applicable codes are the following:
.sp
.nf
.ta 2.0i
SIOCADDRT	Add routing table entry (PARAM : route; no result)
SIOCATMARK	At out-of-band mark?  (no argument; RESULT : short)
SIOCCHGTGRT	Change routing table entry  (PARAM : route; no result)
SIOCDELRT	Delete routing table entry  (PARAM : route; no result)
SIOCDONE	Shutdown read/write on socket  (PARAM : int; no result)
SIOCGKEEP	Inspect keep-alive  (no argument; RESULT : short)
SIOCGLINGER	Get linger time  (no argument; RESULT : short)
SIOCGPGRP	Get process group  (no argument; RESULT : short)
SIOCRCVOOB	Get out-of-band data  (no argument; RESULT : char)
SIOCSENDOOB	Send out-of-band data  (PARAM : char; no result)
SIOCSKEEP	Set keep-alive  (PARAM : int; no result)
SIOCSLINGER	Set linger time  (PARAM : int; no result)
SIOCSPGRP	Set process group  (PARAM : int; no result)
.sp
.fi
route is defined as \f2struct rtentry route\f1.
.SH SEE ALSO
socket(3N), accept(3N), connect(3N), receive(3N), send(3N),
errlog(7), inet(7P), tcp(7P), udp(7P),
and the Berkeley 4.2BSD documents
.br
socket(2), route(1M)
.br
\f2A 4.2bsd Interprocess Communication Primer\f1
.SH FILES
/dev/EXOS/admin
.br
/dev/EXOS/socket*
