.TH TELNETD 1M 
.SH NAME
telnetd \- DARPA TELNET protocol server
.SH DESCRIPTION
The EXOS 8000 TCP/IP protocol module implements a
DARPA standard TELNET server on the EXOS front-end processor board
(instead of on the host system).
The on-board server communicates through the EXOS message queues with 
the \f2xty(7)\f1 driver, which emulates a normal tty driver.
Message semantics functionally resemble a typical terminal multiplexer
board, such as a DEC DMF32.
.PP
The TELNET server listens on the standard TCP port number
for TELNET (23).
When a TELNET session starts, it sends the TELNET WILL ECHO option to 
the client side, 
indicating a willingness to  "remotely echo" characters.
Thereafter, it responds with a WILL when requested by the client
to DO one of the following options:
.RS
.nf

ECHO
SUPPRESS-GO-AHEAD
TRANSMIT-BINARY

.fi
.RE
and returns a DONT in response to requests for any other options.
Option policy can be modified if necessary [see \f2net(4)\f1].
Whenever the server's option state changes, it notifies the host.
ECHO option semantics are implemented by \f2xty(7)\f1.
In reality, the server does not send GO-AHEADs in any event.
When TRANSMIT-BINARY is enabled, the on-board TELNET server
sends data verbatim to the client and expands IAC to IAC-IAC.
Otherwise, it masks off the eighth bit of all data transmitted 
to the client.
.PP
The on-board TELNET server passes network virtual terminal (NVT)
functions [such as interrupt process (IP)] to the host system,
where they are interpreted by the xty driver.
.PP
The on-board TELNET server normally supports up to eight
TELNET connections.  If eight connections are already established
when a new client tries to connect, it returns the message
"All server ports in use" to the client and closes the connection.
The on-board server can be disabled or the number of connections
supported modified with a \f2netload(1M)\f1 command line option.
.SH FILES
/dev/ttyT[0-7]	xty device nodes
.SH SEE ALSO
telnet(1C), xty(7), net(4), netload(1M), rlogind(1M) 
