.TH UD 1M  
.SH NAME
ud \- uucp/mail network daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ud
[
.B \-n 
\f2name_of_unix\f1
]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2ud\f1 connects through the EXOS on-board rlogin server
to a special xty device and waits for some program
(presumably uucico) to open the xty device and send
a string identifying a system to connect to.
\f2ud\f1 then uses the rlogin protocol to establish a connection to the
system name identified by the string.
The effect of \f2ud\f1 is to allow uucico
network as if it were directly connected
to that system over a modem or RS-232 wire.
.LP
\f2ud\f1 attempts to determine when and if the
process on the special xty device has exited.
Upon so determining, \f2ud\f1 kills whatever children it has and
goes back to listening for a new string.
.LP
\f2ud\f1, after making the \f2socket\f1(3) and \f2connect\f1(3)
calls, sends four null characters and reads one null character.  
This reading and writing is required of the rlogin
client when talking to the EXOS on-board rlogin daemon.
.LP
The default \f2name_of_unix\f1 is /vmunix.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
To use \f2ud\f1 as a network mailer, add a line to the
\f2/usr/lib/uucp/L.sys\f1 file for each system to be called.
The system name should be the same as used in \f2/etc/hosts\f1.
If you want to use aliases, add additional lines to \f2L.sys\f1.
Designate ttyT8 as the device.  
The login sequence differs from
a normal uucp login sequence in that it begins by expecting nothing
and by sending the remote system's name.  
Subsequent to this, a normal uucp login sequence ensues.  
For example, \f2L.sys\f entries
for a system named "excelan" (alias "xln") might look like this:
.IP
excelan Any ttyT8 9600 ttyT8 "" excelan assword "^M^M" in:-EOT-in: uucp assword: sesame
.br
xln Any ttyT8 9600 ttyT8 "" xln assword "^M^M" in:-EOT-in: uucp assword: sesame
.LP
Of course, the uucp L-devices file must also be
set to have /dev/ttyT8 as a direct line at 9600 baud.  
The /dev/ttyT8 device is determined by the maximum number of xty devices
defined in the UNIX kernel.  
This number is currently eight.  
Do not place a login listener on the this device.
.LP
\f2ud\f1 is normally started from \f2/etc/rc\f1.
.SH FILES
.nf
/dev/ttyT8	special xty device used by \f2ud\f1 connections
/vmunix		default kernel namelist
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1c), mail(1)
.br
D. A. Nowitz, \f2Uucp Implementation Description\f1
.SH BUGS
If your uucp installation does not work properly, \f2ud\f1
will not work.
