.TH VOLCOPY 1M
.SH NAME
volcopy, labelit \- copy file systems with label checking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/volcopy
[\ options\ ] fsname special1 volname1 special2 volname2
.PP
.B /etc/labelit
special [\ fsname volume [\ \f3\-n\fP\ ]\ ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I volcopy\^
makes a literal copy of the file system
using
a blocksize matched to the device to which or from which it is copying.
Bell file systems and Extent file systems are both supported
(see
.IR fs (4)).
The file system type (Bell file system vs. Extent file system)
is preserved.
.I options
are:
.PD 0
.RS .3i
.TP
.B \-a
Invoke a verification sequence
requiring a positive operator response.
.TP
.B \-s
(default) Inhibit the
verification sequence.
.PD
.RE
.PP
Other \f2options\fP are used only with tapes:
.PD 0
.RS .3i
.TP \w'\f3\-bpi\fPdensity\ \ 'u
.BI \-bpi density
Bits-per-inch (i.e., 800/1600/6250).
.TP
.BI \-feet size
Size of reel in feet (i.e., 1200/2400).
.TP
.BI \-reel num
Beginning reel number for a restarted copy.
.TP
.B \-buf
Use double buffered I/O.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The program requests length and density
information if it is not given on the
command line or is not recorded on an input tape label.
If the file system is too large to fit on one reel,
.I volcopy\^
will prompt for additional reels.
Labels of all reels are checked.
Tapes may  be mounted alternately on two or more drives.
.PP
The
.I fsname\^
argument represents the mounted name (
.IR root ,
.IR u1 ,
etc.)
of the file system being copied.
.PP
The
.I special\^
device name should be the physical disk section or tape
(\f2/dev/rmd1a, /dev/rmt1,\f1 etc.).
.PP
The
.I volname\^
argument is the physical volume name (e.g.:
.IR pk3 ,
.IR t0122 ,
etc.)
and should match the external label sticker.
Such label names are limited to six or fewer characters.
.I volname
may be
.B \-
to use the existing volume name.
.PP
.I special1\^
and
.I volname1\^
are the device and volume from which the copy of the file system is
being extracted.
.I special2\^
and
.I volname2\^
are the destination device and volume.
.PP
.I fsname\^
and
.I volname\^
are recorded in the last 12 characters
of the superblock (\f2char fsname[6], volname[6];\fP).
.PP
.I labelit\^
can be used to provide initial labels for unmounted disk
or tape file systems.
Bell file systems and Extent file systems are both supported
(see
.IR fs (4)).
With the optional arguments omitted,
.I labelit\^
prints current label values.
The
.B \-n
option provides for initial labeling of new tapes and
destroys the previous contents of the tape.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
volcopy newsys /dev/rmd0a 1 /dev/rmt1 1
.PP
copies volume 1 of the file system labeled 
.I newsys 
mounted on 
.I /dev/rmd0a
onto volume 1 of 
.IR /dev/rmt1 .
.IP
labelit /dev/rmt1 oldsys save
.PP
relabels the file system mounted on 
.I /dev/rmt1
with a new 
.I fsname 
of 
.I oldsys 
and a new 
.I volname 
of save.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/etc/log/filesave.log\ \ \ 'u
/etc/log/filesave.log	a record of file systems/volumes copied
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fs(4)
.SH BUGS
You can copy from tape to disk,
from disk to disk,
from disk to tape,
but not from tape to tape.
Only device names beginning
.I /dev/rmt
are treated as tapes.
Tape record sizes are determined both by density and by
drive type.
Records are 5,120 bytes long at 800 and 1600
bits-per-inch, and 25,600 bytes long at 6250 bits-per-inch.
.\"	@(#)volcopy.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/a_man/man1/RCS/volcopy.1m,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:40:52 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	volcopy.1m,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:40:52  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.5  85/09/25  13:43:26  robinf
.\" Final version for Turbo Option
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  85/08/15  12:29:24  robinf
.\" Updates after 1st review for Turbo option
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  85/07/26  11:10:41  locke
.\" cosmetic changes
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  85/07/12  17:20:17  robinf
.\" Update for IRIS 3400
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  85/05/01  17:02:15  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series workstation guide, Version 1.0

.\" Revision 1.2  85/03/12  01:13:10  bob
.\" Changed to reflect that there is no longer "hit DEL to abort" or the
.\" sleep(10).
.\" Changed device names to SGI standards.
.\" 
