.TH XTY 7 
.SH NAME
xty \- TELNET/rlogin terminal interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
\f2xty\f1
device works like a normal tty device,
except that it communicates with the EXOS 8000
on-board TELNET/rlogin server instead of
with an actual terminal multiplexer.
.LP
Minor device numbers 0-7 are used like any other
tty device by the system's login listener [see \f2getty\f1(1M)].
The xty device emulates the behavior of a tty device that
implements modem controls.
An open request to the xty device blocks until some \f2rlogin\f1(1C) or
\f2telnet\f1(1C) client connects to the on-board TELNET/rlogin server.
This is equivalent to a modem asserting carrier detect.
If the TELNET/rlogin client severs the connection before logging out,
the xty device sends the SIGHUP signal to the user's process group.
This is equivalent to a modem losing carrier.
When the xty device is closed, it severs the TELNET/rlogin connection.
.LP
Minor device number 8 is reserved for the uucp server program
[see \f2ud\f1(1M)].
.LP
The xty driver is initially configured in the host system's
normal (``cooked'') tty startup mode.
It responds as follows to TELNET option state changes:
.sp
.nf
DO ECHO		echoing is enabled
DONT ECHO		echoing is disabled
DO BINARY		raw mode is enabled
DONT BINARY	raw mode is disabled
.fi
.sp
All other TELNET options have no effect.
.PP
TELNET Network Virtual Terminal (NVT) functions
have the following effects:
.sp
.nf
IP	send SIGINT signal to user's process group
AYT	on-board server returns an ASCII BEL
EC	same as typing current erase character
EL	same as typing current kill character
AO	no effect
.fi
.RE
.PP
.. The command \f2make devices\f1
.. in the EXOS installation procedure creates the xty device nodes.
.SH FILES
.ta 20n
/dev/ttyT[0-7]	TELNET/rlogin server devices
.br
/dev/ttyT8	uucp server device
.SH SEE ALSO
netload(1M), rlogin(1C), telnet(1C), ud(1M)
