'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ACCESS 2 
.SH NAME
access \- determine accessibility of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int access (path, amode)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B int amode;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
path name
naming a file.
.I Access\^
checks the named file
for accessibility according to the bit pattern contained in
.IR amode ,
using the real user
.SM ID
in place of the effective user
.SM ID
and 
the real group
.SM ID
in place of the effective group
.SM ID\*S.
The bit pattern contained in
.I amode\^
is constructed as follows:
.PP
.RS
04	read
.br
02	write
.br
01	execute (search)
.br
00	check existence of file
.RE
.PP
Access to the file is denied if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
Read, write, or execute
(search)
permission is requested for a null
path name.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
The named file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
Search permission is denied on a component of the
path prefix.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
Write access is requested for a file on a read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
Write access is requested for a pure procedure (shared text)
file that is being executed.
.SM
\%[ETXTBSY]
.IP
Permission bits of the file mode do not permit
the requested access.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.PP
The owner of a file has permission checked with respect to
the ``owner'' read, write, and execute mode bits, members of the file's
group other than the owner have permissions checked with respect to the
``group'' mode bits, and all others have permissions checked with respect
to the ``other'' mode bits.
.PP
Notice that it is only access bits that are checked.
A directory may be announced as writable by
.IR access ,
but an attempt to open it for writing will fail
because it is not allowed to write into the
directory structure itself,
although files may be created there.
A file may look executable, but
.I exec
will fail unless it is in proper format.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
If the requested access is permitted, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(2), stat(2).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#33,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B movl	amode,D1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)access.2	5.1 of 10/19/83
