'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ACCT 2
.SH NAME
acct \- enable or disable process accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int acct (path)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Acct\^
is used to enable or disable the system's process accounting routine.
If the routine is enabled, an accounting record will be written on an
accounting file for each process that terminates.
Termination can be caused by one of two things: an
.I exit\^
call or a signal; see
.IR exit\^ (2)
and 
.IR signal\^ (2).
The effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process must be super-user to use this call.
.PP
.I Path\^
points to a path name naming the accounting file.
The accounting file format is given in
.IR acct\^ (4).
.PP
The accounting routine is enabled if
.I path\^
is non-zero and no errors occur during the system call.
It is disabled if
.I path\^
is zero and no errors occur during the system call.
.PP
.I Acct\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
The effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process is not super-user.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
An attempt is being made to enable accounting when it is already enabled.
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
.IP
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
One or more components of the accounting file's path name do not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
A component of the
path prefix
denies search permission.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The file named by
.I path\^
is not an ordinary file.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
.I Mode\^
permission is denied for the named accounting file.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The named file is a directory.
.SM
\%[EISDIR]
.IP
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
.I Path\^
points to an illegal address.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(4).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#51,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)acct.2	5.1 of 11/1/83
