'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CHMOD 2 
.SH NAME
chmod \- change mode of file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int chmod (path, mode)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B int mode;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
path name
naming a file.
.I Chmod\^
sets the access permission portion of the named file's mode
according to the bit pattern contained in
.IR mode .
.PP
Access permission bits are interpreted as follows:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP \w'04000\ \ \ 'u
04000
Set user
.SM ID
on execution.
.TP
02000
Set group
.SM ID
on execution.
.TP
01000
Save text image after execution
.TP
00400
Read by owner
.TP
00200
Write by owner
.TP
00100
Execute (or search if a directory) by owner
.TP
00070
Read, write, execute (search) by group
.TP
00007
Read, write, execute (search) by others
.RE
.PD
.PP
The effective user
.SM ID
of the process must match the
owner of the file or be
super-user
to change the mode of a file.
.PP
If the effective user
.SM ID
of the process is not
super-user,
mode bit 01000 (save text image on execution) is cleared.
.PP
If the effective user
.SM ID
of the process is not
super-user
or the effective group
.SM ID
of the process does not match the
group
.SM ID
of the file,
mode bit 02000 (set group
.SM ID
on execution)
is cleared.
.PP
If an executable file is prepared for sharing (see the 
.I cc
-n option), then mode bit 01000 prevents the system from
abandoning the swap-space image of the program-text portion
of the file when its last user
terminates.
Thus, when the next user of the file executes it,
the text need not be read from the file
system but can simply be swapped in,
saving time.
.PP
Changing the owner of a file turns off the set-user-id bit,
unless the superuser does it.
This makes the system somewhat more secure 
at the expense of a degree of compatibility.
.PP
.I Chmod\^
will fail and the file mode will be unchanged
if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
A component of
the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
The named file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
Search permission is denied on a
component of the
path prefix.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The effective user
.SM ID
does not match the owner of the file
and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.br
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chown(2), mknod(2).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#15,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B movl	mode,D1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)chmod.2	5.1 of 10/19/83
