'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CHOWN 2
.SH NAME
chown \- change owner and group of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int chown (path, owner, group)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B int owner, group;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
path name
naming a file.
The owner
.SM ID
and group
.SM ID
of the named file
are set to the numeric values contained in
.I owner\^
and
.I group\^
respectively.
.PP
Only processes with effective user
.SM ID
equal to the file owner or
super-user may change the ownership of a file.
.PP
If
.I chown\^
is invoked by other than the super-user, the set-user-\s-1ID\s0
and set-group-\s-1ID\s0
bits of the file mode, 04000 and 02000 respectively,
will be cleared.
.PP
.I Chown\^
will fail and the owner and group of the named file will
remain unchanged if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
The named file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
Search permission is denied on a
component of the
path prefix.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The effective user
.SM ID
does not match the owner of the file
and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(2).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#16,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B movl	owner,D1
.B movl	group,A1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)chown.2	5.1 of 10/19/83
