'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CREAT 2 
.SH NAME
creat \- create a new file or rewrite an existing one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int creat (path, mode)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B int mode;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Creat\^
creates a new ordinary file or prepares to rewrite an existing file
named by the
path name
pointed to by
.IR path .
.PP
If the file exists, the length is truncated to 0 and the mode
and owner are unchanged.
Otherwise,
the file's owner
.SM ID
is set to the process's effective
user
.SM ID\*S,
the file's group
.SM ID
is set to the process's effective group
.SM ID\*S,
and
the low-order 12 bits of the file mode are set to the value of
.I mode\^
modified as follows:
.IP "" .3i
All bits set in the process's file mode creation mask are cleared.
See
.IR umask (2).
.IP
The ``save text image after execution bit'' of the mode is cleared.
See
.IR chmod (2).
.PP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer,
namely the file descriptor,
is returned and the file is open for writing,
even if the mode does not permit writing.
The file pointer is set to the beginning of the file.
The file descriptor is set to remain open across
.I exec\^
system calls.
See
.IR fcntl (2).
No process may have more than 40 files open simultaneously.
.PP
The
.I mode
given is arbitrary; it need not allow writing.
This feature is used by programs which deal with 
temporary files of fixed names.
The creation is done with a mode that forbids writing.
Then, if a second instance of the program attempts a
.IR creat ,
an error is returned and the program knows that the 
name is unusable for the moment.
.PP
The system-scheduling algorithm does not make this a
true uninterruptible operation, 
and a race condition may develop if
.I creat
is done at precisely the same time by two different processes.
.PP
.I Creat\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
A component of the
path prefix
does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
Search permission is denied on a component of the
path prefix.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The path name is null.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
The file does not exist and the directory in which the file
is to be created does not permit writing.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The named file resides or would reside on a read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
The file is a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being executed.
.SM
\%[ETXTBSY]
.IP
The file exists and write permission is denied.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The named file is an existing directory.
.SM
\%[EISDIR]
.IP
Forty (40)
file descriptors are currently open.
.SM
\%[EMFILE]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
a non-negative integer,
namely the file descriptor,
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
close(2), dup(2), lseek(2), open(2), read(2), umask(2), write(2).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#8,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B movl	mode,D1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.PP
The file descriptor is returned in 
.BR D0 .
.DT
.\"	@(#)creat.2	5.1 of 11/16/83
