'\"macro stdmacro
.TH FCNTL 2
.SH NAME
fcntl \- file control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.PP
.B int fcntl (fildes, cmd, arg)
.br
.B int fildes, cmd, arg;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fcntl\^
provides for control over open files.
.I Fildes\^
is an open
file descriptor
obtained from a
.IR creat ,
.IR open ,
.IR dup ,
.IR fcntl ,
or
.I pipe\^
system call.
.PP
The
.I cmds
available are:
.TP \w'\s-1F_DUPFD\s+1\ \ \ \ 'u
.SM F_DUPFD
Return a new
file descriptor
as follows:
.IP "" \w'\s-1F_DUPFD\s+1\ \ \ \ 'u
Lowest numbered available
file descriptor
greater than or equal to
.IR arg .
.IP
Same open file (or pipe) as the original file.
.IP
Same file pointer as the original file
(i.e., both file descriptors share one
file pointer).
.IP
Same access mode (read, write or read/write).
.IP
Same file status flags (i.e., both file descriptors share the same
file status flags).
.IP
The close-on-exec flag associated with the new file descriptor is set to
remain open across
.IR exec\^ (2)
system calls.
.TP
.SM F_GETFD
Get the close-on-exec flag associated with the file descriptor
.IR fildes .
If the low-order bit is
.B 0
the file will remain open across
.IR exec ,
otherwise
the file will be closed upon execution of
.IR exec .
.TP
.SM F_SETFD
Set the close-on-exec flag associated with
.I fildes\^
to the low-order bit of
.I arg\^
.RB ( 0
or
.B 1
as above).
.TP
.SM F_GETFL
Get
.I file\^
status flags.
.TP
.SM F_SETFL
Set
.I file\^
status flags to
.IR arg .
Only certain flags can be set;
see
.IR fcntl\^ (5).
.PP
.I Fcntl\^
will fail if one or more of the following
are true:
.IP "" .3i
.I Fildes\^
is not a valid open
file descriptor.
.SM
\%[EBADF]
.IP
.I Cmd\^
is
.SM F_DUPFD
and 40 file descriptors are currently open.
.SM
\%[EMFILE]
.IP
.I Cmd\^
is
.SM F_DUPFD
and
.I arg\^
is negative or greater than 40.
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
the value returned depends on
.I cmd\^
as follows:
.PD 0
.RS .3i
.TP \w'\s-1F_DUPFD\s+1\ \ \ \ 'u
.SM F_DUPFD
A new file descriptor.
.TP
.SM F_GETFD
Value of flag (only the low-order
bit is defined).
.TP
.SM F_SETFD
Value other than \-1.
.TP
.SM F_GETFL
Value of file flags.
.TP
.SM F_SETFL
Value other than \-1.
.RE
.PP
.PD
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
close(2), exec(2), open(2), fcntl(5).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#62,D0
.B movl	fildes,A0
.B movl	cmd,D1
.B movl	arg,A1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)fcntl.2	5.1 of 11/1/83
