'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)getsockname.2	6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
getsockname \- get socket name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B getsockname(s, name, namelen)
.B int s;
.B struct sockaddr *name;
.B int *namelen;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getsockname
returns the current 
.I name
for the specified socket.  The
.I namelen
parameter should be initialized to indicate
the amount of space pointed to by
.IR name .
On return it contains the actual size of the name
returned (in bytes).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A 0 is returned if the call succeeds, \-1 if it fails.
.SH ERRORS
The call succeeds unless:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[ENOTSOCK]
The argument \f2s\fP is a file, not a socket.
.TP 15
[ENOBUFS]
Insufficient resources were available in the system
to perform the operation.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The 
.I name
parameter points to memory not in a valid part of the
process address space.
.SH NOTE
The primitive documented on this manual page
is a system call, but unlike most system calls
it is not resolved by libc.
To compile and link a program that makes this call,
follow the procedures for section (3B) routines as
described in
.IR intro (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bind(2), socket(2)
.SH BUGS
Names bound to sockets in the UNIX domain are inaccessible;
.I getsockname
returns a zero length name.
