'\"macro stdmacro
.TH LINK 2 
.SH NAME
link \- link to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int link (path1, path2)
.br
.B char \(**path1, \(**path2;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path1\^
points to a
path name
naming an existing file.
.I Path2\^
points to a
path name
naming the new directory entry to be created.
.I Link\^
creates a new link (directory entry) for the existing file.
.PP
.I Link\^
will fail and no link will be created if one or more of the following
are true:
.RS .3i
.PP
A component of either
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.PP
A component of either
path prefix
does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.PP
A component of either
path prefix
denies search permission.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.PP
The file named by
.I path1\^
does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.PP
The link named by
.I path2\^
exists.
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
.PP
The file named by
.I path1\^
is a directory and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.PP
The link named by
.I path2\^
and the file named by
.I path1\^
are on different logical devices (file systems).
.SM
\%[EXDEV]
.PP
.I Path2\^
points to a null path name.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.PP
The requested link requires writing in a directory
with a mode
that denies write permission.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.PP
The requested link requires writing in a directory on a read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.PP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.PP
The requested link requires the file named by
.I path1\^
to have more than 1000 links.
.SM
\%[EMLINK]
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
unlink(2).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#9,D0
.B movl	path1,A0
.B movl	path2,D1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)link.2	5.1 of 11/1/83
