'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MKDIR 2
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int mkdir (path, mode)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B int mode;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The routine 
.I mkdir\^
creates a 
new directory with
the name
.I path\^.
The mode of the new
directory is 
initialized from the
.I mode\^.
The protection part of the
.I mode\^
argument is modified by the
process's
mode mask
[see
.IR umask (2)].
.PP
The directory's owner ID is set to 
the process's effective user ID.
The directory's group ID is set to the 
process's effective group ID.
The newly created directory is empty
with the possible exception
of entries for "."
and "..".
.I mkdir\^
will fail and no directory will be 
created if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of
the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
A component of the
path prefix
does not exist.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"\%[ENOLINK]
.\".I Path\^
.\"points to a remote machine and the link to that
.\"machine is no longer active.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"\%[EMULTIHOP]
.\"Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
.\"remote machines.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Either
a component of the
path prefix
denies search permission
or write permission is
denied on the parent 
directory of the directory
to be created.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENAMETOOLONG]
The path is longer than
the maximum allowed.
.TP
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
The named file
already exists.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
The path prefix resides
on a read-only file system.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOSPC]
The path prefix resides
on a file system which is full.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Path\^
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP
.SM
\%[EMLINK]
The maximum number of links to the parent directory would be exceeded.
.TP
.SM
\%[ELOOP]
The path contains too many symbolic links.
.TP
.SM
\%[EIO]
An I/O error has occurred while accessing the file system.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS

Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned, and 
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
