'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MKNOD 2 
.SH NAME
mknod \- make a directory, or a special or ordinary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int mknod (path, mode, dev)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.br
.B int mode, dev;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mknod\^
creates a new file named by the path name pointed to by
.IR path .
The mode of the new file is initialized from
.IR mode .
Where the value of
.I mode\^
is interpreted as follows:
.RS .3i
0170000 file type; one of the following:
.RS .3i
0010000 fifo special
.br
0020000 character special
.br
0040000 directory
.br
0060000 block special
.br
0100000 or 0000000 ordinary file
.RE
0004000 set user
.SM ID
on execution
.br
0002000 set group
.SM ID
on execution
.br
0001000 save text image after execution
.br
0000777 access permissions; constructed from the following
.RS .3i
0000400 read by owner
.br
0000200 write by owner
.br
0000100 execute (search on directory) by owner
.br
0000070 read, write, execute (search) by group
.br
0000007 read, write, execute (search) by others
.RE
.RE
.PP
The file's owner
.SM ID
is set to the process's effective
user
.SM ID\*S.
The file's group
.SM ID
is set to the process's effective group
.SM ID\*S.
.PP
Values of
.I mode
other than those above are undefined
and should not be used.
The low-order 9 bits of
.I mode
are modified by
the process's file mode creation mask:
all bits set in the process's file mode creation mask are cleared.
See
.IR umask (2).
If
.I mode\^
indicates a block or character special file,
.I dev\^
is a configuration dependent
specification of a character or block I/O device.
If
.I mode\^
does not indicate a block special or character special device,
.I dev\^
is ignored.
.PP
.I Mknod\^
may be invoked only by the super-user for file types other than
.SM FIFO
special.
.PP
.I Mknod\^
will fail and the new file will not be created
if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The process's effective user
ID
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
A component of the
path prefix
does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
The directory in which the file is to be created
is located on a read-only file system.
.TP
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
The named file exists.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
If you create files of the type
fifo special,
character special,
or
block special
on an NFS-mounted file system.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(1), chmod(2), exec(2), umask(2), fs(4).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#14,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B movl	mode,D1
.B movl	dev,A1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)mknod.2	5.1 of 10/19/83
