'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MOUNT 2 
.SH NAME
mount \- mount a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int mount (spec, dir, rwflag)
.br
.B char \(**spec, \(**dir;
.br
.B int rwflag;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mount\^
requests that a removable file system contained on the
block special file identified by
.I spec\^
be mounted on the directory identified by
.IR dir .
.I Spec\^
and
.I dir\^
are pointers to
path names.
.PP
Upon successful completion, references to the file
.I dir\^
will refer to the root directory on the mounted file system.
.PP
The low-order bit of
.I rwflag\^
is used to control write permission on the mounted file system;
if
.BR 1 ,
writing is forbidden,
otherwise writing is permitted according to individual file accessibility.
Physically write-protected and magnetic tape file systems must be
mounted read-only or errors will occur when access times are updated,
whether or not any explicit write is attempted.
.PP
.I Mount\^
may be invoked only by the super-user.
.PP
.I Mount\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.RS .3i
.PP
The effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.PP
Any of the named files does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.PP
A component of a
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.PP
.I Spec\^
is not a block special device.
.SM
\%[ENOTBLK]
.PP
The device associated with
.I spec\^
does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENXIO]
.PP
.I Dir\^
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.PP
.I Spec\^
or
.I dir\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.PP
.I Dir\^
is currently mounted on, is someone's current working directory
or is otherwise busy.
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
.PP
The device associated with
.I spec\^
is currently mounted.
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
umount(2).
.bp
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#21,D0	| sys mount
.B movl	spec,A0
.B movl	dir,D1
.B movl	rwflag,A1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)mount.2	5.1 of 10/19/83
