'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)nfsmount.2 1.2 85/04/04 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH NFSMOUNT 2
.SH NAME
nfsmount \- mount an NFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B nfsmount(argp, dir, readonly)
.B struct nfs_args *argp;
.B char *dir;
i.B int readonly;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nfsmount
mounts an
.IR NFS 
file system on the directory
.IR dir .
.I argp
points to a structure of the following form:
.nf
.ta \w'#include'u +\w'fhandle_t\0\0'u +\w'retrans;\0\0'u
#include	<netinet/in.h>
#include	<nfs/nfs_export.h>
struct nfs_args {
	struct sockaddr_in  *addr;  /* file server address */
	fhandle_t	*fh;	/* File handle to be mounted */
	int	flags;	/* flags */
	int	wsize;	/* write size in bytes */
	int	rsize;	/* read size in bytes */
	int	timeo;	/* initial timeout in .1 secs */
	int	retrans;	/* times to retry send */
};
.fi
.PP
The
.I readonly
argument determines whether
the file system can be written on; if it is 0 writing
is allowed; if non-zero no writing is done.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
.I Nfsmount
returns 0 if the action occurred, \-1 if
some error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.I Nfsmount
will fail when one of the following occurs:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The path name for
.I dir
is too long.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
.I Dir
contains a symbolic link loop.
.TP 15
[ETIMEDOUT]
The server at
.I addr
is not accessible.
This can only happen if the
.I NFSMNT_SOFT
bit is set in
.I argp->flags .
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix in
.I dir
is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
Another process currently holds a reference to 
.IR argp->fh .
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I argp ,
.I argp->addr ,
or
.I argp->fh
does not point within the user's address space.
.TP 15
[EPFNOSUPPORT]
NFS is not supported by the protocol family of
.I argp->addr .
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
One of
.I argp->timeo ,
.I argp->rsize ,
or
.I argp->wsize
is not positive, or
.I argp->retrans
is negative.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(2), umount(2), mount(1M).
