'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PHYS 2 
.SH NAME
phys \- allow a process to access physical addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B phys(physnum, virtaddr, size, physaddr)
.B int physnum
.B char *virtaddr;
.B long size;
.B char *physaddr;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The 
.IR phys\^ (2) 
call maps arbitrary physical memory into a
process's virtual address space.  
The virtual address used by 
.I phys\^
must not otherwise be used.
.I physnum\^
is a number (0-3)
that specifies which of 4 physical spaces
to set up.
Up to 4 
.IR phys\^ (2) 
calls can be active at any one time.
.I Virtaddr\^
is the process's virtual address.
.I Size\^
is the number of bytes to map in.
.I physaddr\^
is the physical address to map in.
.PP
Valid 
.I virtaddr\^ 
and 
.I physaddr\^ 
values are constrained
by hardware and must be at an address multiple of the
resolution of the \s-1CPU\s+1's memory management scheme.
If 
.I size\^ 
is non-zero,
size is rounded up to the next 
.SM MMU 
resolution boundary.
If
.I size\^
is zero, any previous 
.IR phys\^ (2)
mapping for that
.I physnum\^
segment is nullified.
.PP
For example, the call:
.IP
.B phys(2, 0x100000, 32768, 0)
.PP
will allow a process to access physical locations 0 through
32767 by referencing virtual address 0x100000 through
0x100000+32767.
.PP
In actuality, the 
.SM CPU 
.SM MMU 
register is loaded with 
.I physaddr\^ 
shifted to account for page resolution.
.PP
.IR phys\^ (2)
may only be executed by the super-user.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The value zero is returned if the 
.I phys\^
call was successful.
The value \-1 is returned if not super-user, if
.I virtaddr\^
or
.I physaddr\^
is not in the proper range,
or if the specified
.I virtaddr\^
segment register is already in use.
.SH BUGS
This system call is very machine dependent.
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#55,D0
.B movl	physnum,A0
.B movl	virtaddr,D1
.B movl	size,A1
.B movl	D2,save
.B movl	physaddr,D2
.B trap	#0
.B movl	save,D2
.fi
.PP
Carry bit cleared on success.
.SH NOTE
This system call is not supported.
.DT
.\"	@(#)phys.2	5.2 of 3/26/84
