'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RMDIR 2
.SH NAME
rmdir \- remove a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int rmdir (path)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rmdir\^
removes the directory named by the
path name
pointed to by
.IR path .
The directory must not have any entries other
than "." and "..".
.PP
The named directory is removed unless one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The current directory may not be removed.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The "." entry of a directory may not be removed.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOTEMPTY]
The directory contains entries other than those for "." and "..".
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the
path prefix.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the directory
to be removed.
.TP
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
The directory to be removed is the mount point for a mounted file system.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
The directory entry to be removed is part of a
read-only file system.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM
\%[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while accessing the
file system.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"\%[ENOLINK]
.\"\f2Path\f1 points to a remote machine, and the link
.\"to that machine is no longer active.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"\%[EMULTIHOP]
.\"Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to
.\"multiple remote machines.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(2).
.br
rmdir(1), rm(1), and mkdir(1)
in the
\f2User's Reference Manual\f1.
.Ee
