'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SHMCTL 2
.SH NAME
shmctl \- shared memory control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/shm.h>
.PP
.nf
.B int shmctl (shmid, cmd, buf)
.B int shmid, cmd;
.B struct shmid_ds \(**buf;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I shmctl\^
provides a variety of shared memory control operations as specified by
.IR cmd .
The following
.I cmds
are available:
.TP "\w'\f3IPC_RMID\f1\ \ 'u"
.SM
.B IPC_STAT
Place the current value of each member of the data structure associated with
.I shmid\^
into the structure pointed to by
.IR buf .
The contents of this structure are defined in
.IR intro\^ (2).
.SM {READ}
.TP
.SM
.B IPC_SET
Set the value of the following members of the data structure associated with
.I shmid\^
to the corresponding value found in the structure pointed to by
.IR buf :
.ns
.RS .3i
.ns
.TP "\w'\f3IPC_RMID\f1\ \ 'u"
\&
shm_perm.uid
.br
shm_perm.gid
.br
shm_perm.mode /\(** only low 9 bits \(**/
.br
.RE
.TP "\w'\f3IPC_RMID\f1\ \ 'u"
\&
This \f2cmd\fP can only be executed by a process that has an effective user
.SM ID
equal to either that of super user or to the value of
.B shm_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR shmid .
.TP
.SM
.B IPC_RMID
Remove the shared memory identifier specified by
.I shmid\^
from the system and destroy the shared memory segment and data structure
associated with it.
This \f2cmd\fP can only be executed by a process that has an effective user
.SM ID
equal to either that of super user or to the value of
.B shm_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR shmid .
.PP
.I shmctl\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
.I shmid\^
is not a valid shared memory identifier.
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.IP
.I cmd\^
is not a valid command.
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.IP
.I cmd\^
is equal to
.SM
.B IPC_STAT
and
.SM {READ}
operation permission is denied to the calling process (see
.IR intro\^ (2)).
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
.I cmd\^
is equal to
.SM
.B IPC_RMID
or
.SM
.B IPC_SET
and the effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process is not equal to that of super user and it is
not equal to the value of
.B shm_perm.uid
in the data structure associated with
.IR shmid .
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
.I buf\^
points to an illegal address.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
shmget(2), shmop(2).
.\"	@(#)shmctl.2	5.1 of 11/2/83
