'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SHMGET 2
.SH NAME
shmget \- get shared memory segment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/shm.h>
.PP
.nf
.BR "int shmget (key, size, shmflg)
.B key_t key;
.B int size, shmflg;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I shmget\^
returns the shared memory identifier associated with
.IR key .
.PP
A shared memory identifier and associated data structure and shared memory
segment of size
.I size\^
bytes (see
.IR intro\^ (2))
are created for
.I key\^
if one of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
.I key\^
is equal to
.SM
.BR IPC_PRIVATE .
.IP
.I key\^
does not already have a shared memory identifier associated with it, and
.RI ( shmflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_CREAT\*S )
is ``true''.
.PP
Upon creation, the data structure associated with the new shared memory
identifier is initialized as follows:
.IP "" .3i
.BR Shm_perm.cuid ", " shm_perm.uid ,
.BR shm_perm.cgid ", and " shm_perm.gid
are set equal to the effective user
.SM ID
and effective group
.SM ID\*S,
respectively, of the calling process.
.IP
The low-order 9 bits of
.B shm_perm.mode
are set equal to the low-order 9 bits of
.IR shmflg .
.B Shm_segsz
is set equal to the value of
.IR size .
.IP
.BR Shm_lpid ", " shm_nattch ",
.BR shm_atime ", and " shm_dtime "
are set equal to 0.
.IP
.B Shm_ctime
is set equal to the current time.
.PP
.I shmget\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
.I size\^
is less than the system-imposed minimum
or greater than the system-imposed maximum.
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.IP
A shared memory identifier exists for
.I key\^
but operation permission (see
.IR intro\^ (2))
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.I shmflg\^
would not be granted. 
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
A shared memory identifier exists for
.I key\^
but the size of the segment associated with it is less than
.I size\^
and
.I size\^
is not equal to zero.
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.IP
A shared memory identifier does not exist for
.I key\^
and
.RI ( shmflg " &"
.SM
.BR IPC_CREAT\*S )
is ``false''.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
A shared memory identifier is to be created but
the system-imposed limit on the maximum number of
allowed shared memory identifiers systemwide
would be exceeded.
.SM
\%[ENOSPC]
.IP
A shared memory identifier and associated shared memory segment are to be
created but the amount of available physical memory is not sufficient to
fill the request.
.SM
\%[ENOMEM]
.IP
A shared memory identifier exists for
.I key\^
but
.RI "( (" shmflg " & "
.SM
.RB IPC_CREAT\*S ") & ("
.IR shmflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_EXCL\*S ") )"
is ``true''.
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
a non-negative integer,
namely a shared memory identifier is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
shmctl(2), shmop(2).
.\"	@(#)shmget.2	5.1 of 11/16/83
