'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SYSFS 2
.SH NAME
sysfs \- get file system type information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/fstyp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/fsid.h>
.sp
.B int sysfs (opcode, fsname)
.br
.B int opcode;
.br
.B char *fsname;
.sp
.B int sysfs (opcode, fs_index, buf)
.br
.B int opcode;
.br
.B int fs_index;
.br
.B char *buf;
.br
.sp
.B int sysfs (opcode)
.br
.B int opcode;
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2sysfs\f1  returns information about the file system types configured 
in the system. The number of arguments accepted by \f2sysfs\f1 varies and 
depends on the \f2opcode\f1. The currently recognized \f2opcodes\f1 and their 
functions are described below:
.TP 1.5i
\f3GETFSIND\f1
translates \f2fsname\f1, a null-terminated file-system identifier, 
into a file-system type index.
.TP
\f3GETFSTYP\f1
translates \f2fs_index\f1, a file-system type index, into a null-terminated
file-system identifier and writes it into the buffer pointed to by \f2buf\f1;
this buffer must be at least of size \f3FSTYPSZ\f1 as defined in 
\f2<sys/fstyp.h>\f1.
.TP
\f3GETNFSTYP\f1
returns the total number of file system types configured in
the system.
.P
\f2sysfs\f1 will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 1.5i
[EINVAL]
\f2Fsname\f1 points to an invalid file-system identifier; \f2fs_index\f1 is
zero, or invalid; \f2opcode\f1 is invalid.
.TP
[EFAULT]
\f2Buf\f1 or \f2fsname\f1 point to an invalid user address.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion, \f2sysfs\f1 returns the file-system type index if
the \f2opcode\f1 is \f3GETFSIND\f1, a value of 0 if the \f2opcode\f1 is 
\f3GETFSTYP\f1, or the number of file system types configured if the 
\f2opcode\f1 is \f3GETNFSTYP\f1.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned 
and \f2errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)SYSFS.2	0.0 of 0/0/00
.Ee
