'\"macro stdmacro
.TH UNLINK 2 
.SH NAME
unlink \- remove directory entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B int unlink (path)
.br
.B char \(**path;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Unlink\^
removes the directory entry named by the
path name
pointed to be
.IR path .
.PP
The named file is unlinked unless one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
The named file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
Search permission is denied for a component of the
path prefix.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the link
to be removed.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The named file is a directory and the effective user
.SM ID
of the process is
not super-user.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
The entry to be unlinked is the mount point for a mounted file system.
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
.IP
The entry to be unlinked is
the last link to
a pure procedure (shared text) file
that is being executed.
.SM
\%[ETXTBSY]
.IP
The directory entry to be unlinked is part of a
read-only file system.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.PP
When all links to a file have been removed and no process has the file open,
the space occupied by the file is freed and the file
ceases to exist.
If one or more processes have the file open when the last link is removed,
the removal is postponed until all references to the file have been closed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rm(1), close(2), link(2), open(2).
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#10,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B trap	#0
.fi
.PP
Carry bit set on failure and cleared on success.
.DT
.\"	@(#)unlink.2	5.1 of 10/19/83
