'\"macro stdmacro
.TH UTIME 2
.SH NAME
utime \- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta \w'struct\ \ 'u +\w'utimbuf {\ 'u +\w'modtime;\ \ \ 'u
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/types.h>
struct	utimbuf {
	time_t	actime;	/\(** access time \(**/
	time_t	modtime;	/\(** modification time \(**/
};
int utime (path, times)
char \(**path;
struct utimbuf \(**times;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
path name
naming a file.
.I Utime\^
sets the access and modification times
of the named file.
.PP
If
.I times\^
is
.SM
.BR NULL ,
the access and modification times of the file are set to the current time.
A process must be the owner of the file or have write permission to use
.I utime\^
in this manner.
.PP
If
.I times\^
is not
.SM
.BR NULL ,
.I times\^
is interpreted as a pointer to a
.I utimbuf\^
structure and
the access and modification times are set to the values contained in
the designated structure.
Only the owner of the file or the super-user may
use
.I utime\^
this way.
.PP
The times in the
.I utimbuf
structure are measured in 
seconds since 00:00:00 \s-1GMT\s+1, Jan. 1, 1970.
.PP
.I Utime\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.IP "" .3i
The named file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
Search permission is denied by a component of the
path prefix.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user and not the owner of the file
and
.I times\^
is not
.SM
.BR NULL .
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
The effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user and not the owner of the file
and 
.I times\^
is
.SM
.B NULL
and write access is denied.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
.I Times\^
is not
.SM
.B NULL
and points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stat(2)
.SH ASSEMBLER
.ta \w'\f3moveq\f1\ \ \ 'u 1.5i
.nf
.B moveq	#30,D0
.B movl	path,A0
.B movl	times,D1
.B trap	#0
.fi
.DT
.\"	@(#)utime.2	5.1 of 11/1/83
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man2/RCS/utime.2,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:55:01 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	utime.2,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:55:01  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:57:04  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.2  85/03/01  14:34:51  bob
.\" Corrected to indicate that user must declare utimbuf structure to fix
.\" SCR 596.
.\" 
