.TH ARP 1 
.SH NAME
arp \- address resolution display and control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arp
\f2hostname\f1
.br
.B arp
.B \-a
[
.B entire
]
.br
.B arp
.B \-d
\f2hostname\f1
.br
.B arp
.B \-s
\f2hostname ether_addr\f1
[
.B temp
] [
.B publ
]
.br
.B arp
.B \-f
\f2filename\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2arp\f1 program displays and modifies the Internet-to-Ethernet 
address translation tables used by the address resolution protocol 
[\f2arp(7P)\f1].
.LP
With no flags, the program displays the current ARP entry for
\f2hostname\f1.
With the \f2\-a\f1
flag, the program displays all the current ARP entries by requesting
the \f2i\f1th entry from the EXOS 8010 board until an error is returned.
Normally, only those entries for which corresponding hosts can be found
are displayed.
However, by specifying \f2entire\f1
the entire contents of the ARP table are displayed.
.LP
With the \f2\-d\f1 flag, super user can delete an entry for the host 
called \f2hostname\f1.
.LP
The \f2\-s\f1 flag creates an ARP entry for the host called
\f2hostname\f1 with the Ethernet address \f2ether_addr\f1.
The Ethernet address is given as six hexadecimal bytes separated by 
colons.
Alternatively, each of the six bytes may be specified in
octal, decimal or hexadecimal, and separated by dots.
In this case, octal numbers start with 0, 
decimal numbers start with 1 to 9, 
and hexadecimal numbers start with 0x or 0X.
The entry will be permanent unless the option \f2temp\f1
is given in the command. 
Permanent entries do not age out of the cache and 
are given preference to remain in the cache when the table overflows.
If the option \f2publ\f1 is given, the entry is ``published''; 
that is, this system will respond to ARP requests for \f2hostname\f1
even though the host name is not its own.
Once again, only the super user can alter the contents of the ARP cache.
.LP
The \f2\-f\f1 flag causes the file \f2filename\f1
to be read and multiple entries to be set in the ARP tables.  Entries
in the file should be of the form
.IP
\f2hostname ether_addr\f1
[
.B temp
] [
.B publ
]
.LP
with argument meanings and formats as given above.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.LP
The ARP command will complain of errors in its input format,
of non-super users attempting to update the cache,
of references to unknown hosts, and of various system-detected errors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
arp(7P)
