.TH DPR 1C
.SH NAME
dpr \- off-line print
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpr
[
.BR \- destination
] [ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dpr\^
causes the named files to be printed off-line at the specified destination,
by
.SM GCOS
at the Murray Hill Computation Center.
.SM GCOS
identification must appear in
the
.SM UNIX
System
password file (see
.IR passwd (4)),
or be supplied by the
.B \-i
option.
If no files are listed the standard input is assumed;
thus
.I dpr\^
may be used as a filter.
.PP
The destination is a two-character code which
is taken to be a Murray Hill
.SM GCOS
``station id.''
Useful codes are
.B r1
for quality print,
and
.B q1
for quality print with special ribbon,
both on regular wide paper.
The codes
.B r2
and
.B q2
give the same print on narrow paper.
The code
.B mx
is a Xerox 9700 printer.
The default destination is on-line at the Murray Hill Computation Center.
.PP
The following options, each as a separate argument,
and in any combination (multiple outputs are permitted),
may be given before or after the destination:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.B \-c
Makes a copy of the file to be sent before returning to the user.
.TP 7
.B \-r
Removes the file after sending it.
.TP 7
.BI \-f file
Use
.I file
as a dummy file name to report back in the mail.
(This is useful for distinguishing multiple runs, especially when
.I dpr\^
is being used as a filter).
.TP 7
.BI \-i job,bin
Supply the
.SM GCOS
``ident card'' image as the parameter
.BI \-i job,bin
where
.I job
is the
.SM GCOS
job number and
.I bin
the
.SM GCOS
bin number
or any comment to the
.SM GCOS
operators.
.TP 7
.B \-m
When transmission is complete, reports by
.IR mail (1)
the so-called
.I snumb\^
of the receiving
.SM GCOS
job.
The mail is sent by the
.SM UNIX
daemon;
there is no guarantee that the
.SM GCOS
job ran successfully.
This is the default option.
.TP 7
.B \-n
Does not report the completion of transmission by
.IR mail (1).
.TP 7
.B \-p
Selects portrait mode.
Used in conjunction with a XEROX 9700 printer.
.TP 7
.BI \-s n\^
Submits job to
.SM GCOS
with service grade
.I n\^
.RI ( n "=1, 2, 3, 4)."
Default is
.BR \-s2 .
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
The command:
.RS
.PP
dpr \|\-r \|\-n \|error1 \|error2
.RE
.PP
will send the files
.B error1
and
.B error2
to
.SM GCOS
for printing,
removing the files after they have been sent,
but not sending mail.
The line:
.RS
.PP
pr \|file1 \|\(bv \|dpr \|\-s1 \|\-f\|job1 \|\-r1
.RE
.PP
will send the output of
.I pr\^
to
.SM GCOS
for printing on the quality printer
with service grade 1,
and will send mail that
.I job1\^
has been sent.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/passwd
user's identification and
.SM GCOS
ident card.
.TP
/usr/lib/dpd
sending daemon.
.TP
/usr/spool/dpd/\(**
spool area.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
dpd(1C), fget(1C), fsend(1C), gcat(1C).
.\"	@(#)dpr.1c	5.2 of 5/18/82
