.TH GRAPHICS 1G
.SH NAME
graphics \- access graphical and numerical commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graphics
[ \f3\-r\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Graphics\^
appends the path name
.B /usr/bin/graf
to the current
.B $\s-1PATH\s+1
value,
changes the primary shell prompt to \f3^\f1,
and executes a new shell.
The directory
.B /usr/bin/graf
contains all of the Graphics subsystem commands.
If the \f3\-r\f1 option is given,
access to the graphical commands is created
in a restricted environment;
that is,
.B $\s-1PATH\s+1
is set to
\f3/:rbin:\%/usr/rbin:\%/bin:\%/usr/bin:\%/usr/bin/graf\f1
and the restricted shell,
.IR rsh ,
is invoked.
To restore the environment that existed prior to
issuing the
.I graphics\^
command, type
.B \s-1EOT\s+1
(control-d on most terminals).
To logoff from the graphics environment,
type
.BR quit .
.PP
The command line format for a command in
.I graphics\^
is \f3command name\f1 followed by \f3argument\f1(s).
An \f3argument\f1 may be a \f3file name\f1 or an \f3option string\f1.
A \f3file name\f1 is the name of any \s-1UNIX\s+1 System file except those
beginning with \f3\-\f1.
The \f3file name\f1 \f3\-\f1 is the name for the standard input.
An \f3option string\f1 consists of \f3\-\f1 followed by one or more \f3option\f1(s).
An \f3option\f1 consists of a keyletter possibly followed by a value.
\f3Options\f1 may be separated by commas.
.PP
The graphical commands have been partitioned into four groups.
.IP
Commands that manipulate and plot numerical data; see
.IR stat (1G).
.IP
Commands that generate tables of contents; see
.IR toc (1G).
.IP
Commands that interact with graphical devices; see
.IR gdev (1G)
and
.IR ged (1G).
.IP
A collection of graphical utility commands; see
.IR gutil (1G).
.PP
A list of the
.I graphics\^
commands can be generated
by typing
.B whatis
in the 
.I graphics\^
environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
gdev(1G),
ged(1G),
gutil(1G),
stat(1G),
toc(1G),
gps(4).
.br
.IR "\s-1UNIX\s+1 System Graphics Guide" .
.\"	@(#)graphics.1g	5.2 of 5/18/82
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man1/RCS/graphics.1g,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:41:16 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	graphics.1g,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:41:16  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.2  85/01/08  11:03:52  bob
.\" Changed \f[RIB] to \f[123].
.\" 
