.bd S B 3
.TH GUTIL 1G
.SH NAME
gutil \- graphical utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
command-name [options] [files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Below is a list of miscellaneous device
independent utility commands found in
.BR /usr/bin/graf .
If no
.I files\^
are given, input is from the standard input.
All output is to the standard output.
Graphical data is stored in \s-1GPS\s+1 format; see 
.IR gps (4).
.sp
.if t .ds ' \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\'\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ' '
.if t .ds ` \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\`\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ` `
.PP
.TP 10
.B bel \c
 \- send bel character to terminal
.PP
.TP 10
.B cvrtopt
[\|=\c
.BI s "string\^"
.BI f "string\^"
.BI i "string " t string\c\^
\|\|]  [\|\c
.I args\c\^
\|\|] \c
 \- options converter
.br
.I Cvrtopt\^
reformats \f3args\f1 (usually
the command line arguments of a
calling shell procedure)
to facilitate processing by shell procedures.
An \f3arg\f1 is either a file name
(a string not beginning with
a \f3\-\f1, or a \f3\-\f1 by itself)
or an option string
(a string of options beginning with a \f3\-\f1).
Output is of the form:
.br
		\f3\-\f3option \f3\-\f3option . . . file name(s)
.br
\f1All options appear singularly and preceding
any file names.
Options that take values (e.g.,
\f3\-\f1r1.1) or are two letters long must
be described through options to \f3cvrtopt\f1.
.sp
\f3Cvrtopt\f1 is usually used with \f3set\f1 in the following manner
as the first line of a shell procedure:
.br
.BI "		set \- \*`cvrtopt =[" options "] $@\*`\^"
.br
.I Options\^
to
.I cvrtopt\^
are:
.RS 10n
.TP 10
.BI s string\^
\f3String\fP accepts string values.
.TP 10
.BI f string\^
\f3String\fP accepts floating point numbers as values.
.TP 10
.BI i string\^
\f3String\fP accepts integers as values.
.TP 10
.BI t string\^
\f3String\fP is a two letter option name that takes no value.
.TP 10
\f3String\fP is a one or two letter option name.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B gd
[\|\s-1GPS\s+1
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \s-1GPS\s+1 dump
.br
.I Gd\^
prints a human readable listing of \s-1GPS\s+1.
.PP
.TP 10
.B gtop
[\|\f3\-\c
.BI r n\| u\^
\|\|]  [\|\s-1GPS\s+1
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \s-1GPS\s+1 to \f3plot\^\f1(4) filter
.br
.I Gtop\^
transforms a \s-1GPS\s+1 into \f3plot\^\f1(4) commands displayable by \f3plot\f1 filters.
\s-1GPS\s+1 objects are translated if they fall within the window
that circumscribes the first \f3file\f1 unless an
\f3option\f1 is given.
.br
Options:
.RS 10n
.TP 10
.BI r n\^
translate objects in \s-1GPS\s+1 
\f3r\f1egion \f3n\f1.
.TP 10
.B u
translate all objects in the \s-1GPS\s+1 \f3u\f1niverse.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B pd
[
.I plot\c\^
\^(5)
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \f3plot\^\f1(4) dump
.br
.I Pd\^
prints a human readable listing of \f3plot\^\f1(4) format graphical commands.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B ptog
[
.I plot\c\^
\^(5)
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- \f3plot\^\f1(4) to \s-1GPS\s+1 filter
.br
.I Ptog\^
transforms \f3plot\^\f1(4) commands into a \s-1GPS\s+1.
.PP
.TP 10
.B quit \c
 \- terminate session
.PP
.TP 10
.B remcom
[
.I files\^
\|\|] \c
 \- remove comments
.br
.I Remcom\^
copies its input to its output with comments removed.
Comments are as defined in C (i.e., /\(** comment \(**/).
.PP
.TP 10
.B whatis
[\|\f3\-\c
.B o
\|\|]  [\|
.I names\^
\|\|] \c
 \- brief online documentation
.br
.I Whatis\^
prints a brief description of each \f3name\f1 given.
If no \f3name\f1 is given, then the current list of description \f3names\f1 is printed.
.B whatis \e\(**
prints out every description.
.br
Option:
.RS 10n
.TP 10
.B o
just print command
.BR o ptions
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B yoo
.I file\^\c
 \- pipe fitting
.br
.I Yoo\^
is a piping primitive that deposits the output of a pipeline
into a \f3file\f1 used in the pipeline.
Note that, without \f3yoo\f1, this is not usually successful as it causes a read and write
on the same file simultaneously.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
graphics(1G), gps(4).
.\"	@(#)gutil.1g	5.2 of 5/18/82
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man1/RCS/gutil.1g,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:41:17 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	gutil.1g,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:41:17  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.2  85/01/08  11:03:56  bob
.\" Changed \f[RIB] to \f[123].
.\" 
