'\" t
.TH HEM 1D
.SH NAME
hem \- three dimensional display of the Cytochrome P450 protein molecule
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/people/demos/hem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Dr. Tom Poulos and Prof. Joseph Kraut of the University of California at
San Diego have constructed a computer model of
the Cytochrome P450 molecule to aid in their research into the structure
of this enzyme. Computer graphics help in
comparing electron density maps to the proposed protein structure by
moving the hypothetical structure into regions of high electron density.
Proximity of atoms provides information regarding chemical
interaction.
.PP
.B Hem
displays the Cytochrome protein with control of viewing transformations
via pop-up menu selections. Also, display of various parts of the protein
molecule can be toggled on and off.
.PP
Pop the menu up by holding down the right mouse button. Menu selections are
are toggled by placing the cursor atop the menu selection and pressing the
left mouse button. The menu disappears when the right mouse button is released.
.sp .5v
.TS
doublebox center;
cB s
lI | lI
l | l.
Commands
_
Item	Function
=
1	The hem group, the sub-unit which accepts and donates electrons
2	Van der Waal surface of the hem group
3	Electron density contour around the iron atom
4	Backbone of P450, connecting alpha-carbons of amino acid subunits
5	Amino acids that interact with the hem group
.sp .1v
.TE
.SH "HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS"
A minimum configuration of 8 bitplanes and 1.5 Megabytes of memory is required
to run
.IR hem .
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man1/RCS/hem.1d,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:41:19 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	hem.1d,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:41:19  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.2  84/12/13  17:06:12  bob
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  84/12/11  13:36:33  bob
.\" Initial revision
.\" 
