.TH LIBRARY 1
.SH NAME
library \- create a library of FORTRAN and Pascal objects on an IRIS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "library \-l " "ofile ifile [ ifile .... ]"
.br
.B library
listfname ofile ifile [ ifile .... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Library
can be used to generate a library of FORTRAN and Pascal object (.j) files.
The resultant library, which should be suffixed with .j, can be used as
as regular object to the
.IR f77 (1)
or
.IR pc (1)
program.  The prelinker program
.I code,
will recognize the library format and only extract needed objects.
.PP
Library accepts as its first argument either a filename, on which a listing
of the created library is placed, or the switch
.B "\-l" ,
which is used to indicate that no library listing is desired.  Library
can also be run interactively, in which case it prompts for the file names.
.PP
If the resultant library file is not suffixed with \f2.j\fP,
.IR f77 (1)
and
.IR pc (1)
will not recognize it as a FORTRAN/Pascal file.
.PP
The \f2library\f1 utility is only used on the IRIS series.  On other
systems, the FORTRAN and Pascal compilers produce UNIX binaries, and
the standard UNIX utility \f2ar(1)\fP is used.
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man1/RCS/library.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:41:21 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	library.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:41:21  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.5  85/07/21  12:07:00  robinf
.\" Update from Greg Boyd
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  85/05/02  18:20:35  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  84/12/11  13:37:05  bob
.\" Cleaned up formatting
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  84/11/14  16:09:47  bob
.\" 
