.TH LOADST 1
.SH NAME
loadst \- print current time and load statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B
loadst [ \-n ] [ \-a ] [ \-x ] [ \-t ] [ \-u ]
[interval]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I
Loadst
is an 
.I
emacs
helper utility used to drive a mode-line clock for
.I
emacs.
It indicates whether you have new mail, prints the current time, and can
display load average, disk-usage and cumulative cpu-time statistics.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
With no arguments,  loadst prints the word ``Mail'' if you have new mail, or
nothing if you do not.
Specifying flags adds other information to the
display as follows:
.IP "\f3\-a\f1" 17
display system load average
.IP "\f3\-x\f1" 17
display disk transfer statistics
.IP "\f3\-t\f1" 17
print the current time
.PP
If you specify a decimal
.I
interval
argument,
.I
loadst
will go to sleep and produce its output every
.I
interval
seconds.  If no interval is specified, loadst prints once and exits.
.IP "\f3\-n\f1" 17
prevents a newline from being added to the end of the status
line.  Otherwise,  a newline is appended.
.IP "\f3\-u\f1" 17
causes it to use your real uid rather than the value of the
USER shell variable (which may not be defined on non-BSD systems)
to figure out the name of your mail file.
.SH NOTE
In order to produce the load, disk, and cpu-usage statistics,
.I
loadst
must be able to read \f2/dev/kmem\f1.  If \f2/dev/kmem\f1 is protected against
unprivileged users, you must run loadst setuid or setgid so it can read
\f2/dev/kmem\f1.
.SH FILES
.IP "/dev/kmem" 17
for load, cpu-usage, disk-usage statistics
.IP "time.ml" 17
Emacs MLisp library that uses loadst to drive a mode-line clock
.SH BUGS
The options must be given one per word, as in \f3\-a \-t\f1 rather than
\f3\-at\f1.  This is not really considered a problem, since
.I
loadst
is intended to be invoked by time.ml, and not interactively.
