.TH RESHAPE 1
.SH NAME
reshape \- reshape the console textport
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "reshape \-s"
.br
.B "reshape \-40"
.br
.B "reshape \-24"
.br
.B reshape
.I "llx lly xlen ylen"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Reshape
allows the textport to be reshaped. The textport is the window that is used
for non-graphics programs. Some programs, such as
.IR vi ,
assume that the window is a particular size according to the specified
termcap entry. The entry
.BR wsiris ,
for example, assumes a window of 40 lines by 80 columns.
One may add entries to
.B /etc/termcap
to support different window sizes.
.P
The
.B \-s
flag causes
.I reshape
to set the window to be 40 rows by 80 columns in the center of the screen.
The
.B \-40
flag is equivalent to the
.B \-s
flag.
The
.B \-24
flag causes
.I reshape
to set the window to be 24 rows of 80 columns in the center of the screen.
.P
Instead of selecting a standard configuration, the size and location may
be set to any desired values.
The x and y values of the lower left corner of the textport window
may be specified with
.I llx
and
.IR lly ,
in screen coordinates (pixels).
The size of the window may be specified with
.I xlen
and
.I ylen
which specify the number of columns and rows respectively, in characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tpblank(1), tpon(1)
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man1/RCS/reshape.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:41:31 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	reshape.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:41:31  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.1  84/12/11  13:37:49  bob
.\" Initial revision
.\" 
