.TH ROUTE 1 
.SH NAME
route \- manually manipulate the routing tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bin/route
[
\f2command args\f1
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2route\f1 is a program used to manually manipulate the network
routing tables.  
.PP
\f2route\f1 accepts three options:  \f2add\f1, to add a route;
\f2delete\f1, to delete a route; and \f2show\f1,
to show an existing route.
All options have the following syntax:
.PP
.ti +0.5i
route \f2option\f1 destination gateway
.PP
where \f2destination\f1 is a host or network to which the route is, 
and \f2gateway\f1 is the gateway to which packets should be addressed.
Routes to a particular host are distinguished from those to
a network by interpreting the Internet address associated with
\f2destination\f1.
If \f2destination\f1 has a ``local address part'' of INADDR_ANY, 
the route is assumed to be to a network; otherwise, it is presumed 
to be a route to a host. 
All symbolic names specified for a \f2destination\f1 or \f2gateway\f1
are first looked up in the host name database, \f2hosts\f1(4).
.PP
\f2show\f1 can be used to display an individual route or all the 
routes currently configured. An individual route
is displayed by specifying the destination only.
All the routes are displayed by not specifying a specific destination.
.PP
\f2add\f1 can be used to add a \f2default\f1 route. 
If no route is available to get to a destination,
this will be used as the default route. 
The default route is indicated by using 0 as the destination address. 
Typically, the default route will  be the address of a gateway.
.PP
\f2route\f1 uses the board device and BRDADDRT, BRDDELRT, BRDDISPRT,
and BRDSHOWRT \f2ioctl\f1s to do its work.  
As such, only the super user can modify the routing tables.
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 5
\f3add %s: gateway %s flags %x\f1
The specified route is being added to the tables.  The
values printed are from the routing table entry supplied
in the \f2ioctl\f1 call.
.TP 5
\f3delete %s: gateway %s flags %x\f1
As above, but when deleting an entry.
A delete operation was attempted for an entry that
wasn't present in the tables.
.TP 5
\f3routing table overflow\f1
An add operation was attempted, but the EXOS FEP was
low on resources and was unable to allocate memory
to create the new entry.
