.TH SAG 1G
.SH NAME
sag \- system activity graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "sag "
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sag\^
graphically displays the system activity data
stored in a binary data file by a previous
.IR sar\^ (1)
run.
Any of the
.I sar\^
data items may be plotted
singly, or in combination; as cross plots, or versus time.
Simple arithmetic combinations of data may be specified.
.I Sag\^
invokes 
.I sar\^
and finds the desired data by string-matching the data column header
(run 
.I sar\^
to see what's available).
These \f2options\^\fP are passed thru to 
.IR sar :
.TP "\w'\f3\-T\ \f2term\f1\ \ 'u"
\f3\-s \f2time\f1
Select data later than
.I time\^
in the form hh\|[\^:mm\^]\^.
Default is 08:00.
.TP
\f3\-e \f2time\f1
Select data up to
.IR time .
Default is 18:00.
.TP
\f3\-i \f2sec\f1
Select data at intervals as close as possible to 
.I sec\^
seconds.
.TP
\f3\-f \f2file\f1
Use 
.I file\^
as the data source for \f2sar\f1.
Default is the current daily data file \f3/usr/adm/sa/sa\f2dd\f1.
.PP
Other \f2options\fP:
.TP "\w'\f3\-T\ \f2term\f1\ \ 'u"
\f3\-T \f2term\f1
Produce output suitable for terminal \f2term\f1.
If
.I term\^
is
.BR vpr ,
output is processed by
.B vpr \-p
and queued to a Versatec printer.
Default for
.I term\^
is
.BR \s-1$TERM\s+1 .
.TP
.BI "\-x\0" spec
x axis specification with
.I spec\^
in the form:
.RS "\w'\f3\-T\ \f2term\f1\ \ \ \ \ \ 'u"
"name\|[op \|name]\|.\|.\|.\|[lo \|hi]"
.RE
.TP "\w'\f3\-T\ \f2term\f1\ \ 'u"
.BI "\-y\0" spec
y axis specification with
.I spec\^
in the same form as above.
.PP
\f2Name\^\f1 
is either a string that will match a column header in the 
.I sar\^
report, with an optional device name in square brackets,
e.g., 
.BR r+w/s\| [ dsk\-1\| ],
or an integer value.
.I Op\^
is +, \-, \(**, or / surrounded by blanks.
Up to five names may be specified.
Parentheses are not recognized.
Contrary to custom, + and \-
have precedence over \(** and /\|.
Evaluation is left to right.
Thus
A\0/\0A\0+\0B\0\(**\0100
is evaluated (A/(A+B))\(**100,
and
A\0+\0B\0/\0C\0+\0D
is (A+B)/(C+D).
.I  Lo\^
and
.I hi\^
are optional numeric scale limits.
If unspecified, they are deduced from the data.
.PP
A single
.I spec\^
is permitted for the x axis.
If unspecified, \f2time\^\fP is used.
Up to 5
\f2spec\^\f1's
separated by
.B \|;\|
may be given for
.BR \-y .
Enclose the
.BR "\-x " "and " "\-y"
arguments in
\f3"\|"\f1
if blanks or \f3\\\f1<\s-1CR\s+1> are included.
The
.B \-y
default is:
.PP
\f3\-y "%usr 0 100; %usr + %sys 0 100; %usr + %sys + %wio 0 100"
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
sag
.PP
wil show today's
.SM CPU
utilization.
.SH FILES
.TP "\w'/usr/adm/sa/sa\f2dd\f1\ \ \ 'u"
/usr/adm/sa/sa\f2dd\f1
daily data file for day \f2dd\f1.
.SH SEE ALSO
sar(1)
.\"	@(#)sag.1g	5.1 of 11/18/83
