.ds P UNIX
.TH SAR 1 
.SH NAME
sar \- system activity reporter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sar
.RB [\| \-ubdycwaqvmA\| ]
.RB [\| \-o\0 file\|]
t [ n ]
.PP
.B sar
.RB [\| \-ubdycwaqvmA\| ]
.RB [\| \-s\0 time\|]
.RB [\| \-e\0 time\|]
.RB [\| \-i\0 sec\|]
.RB [\| \-f\0 file\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Sar ,
in the first instance,
samples cumulative activity counters in the operating system
at
.I n\^
intervals of
.I t\^
seconds.
If the
.B \-o
option is specified, it saves
the samples in
.I file\^
in binary format.
The default value of
.I n\^
is 1.
In the second instance, with no sampling interval specified,
.I sar\^
extracts data from a previously
recorded
.IR file ,
either the one specified
by
.B \-f
option
or, by default,
the standard system activity daily data file
.BI /usr/adm/sa/sa\| dd\^
for the current day
.IR dd .
The starting and ending times of the report
can be bounded via the
.B \-s
and
.B \-e
.I time\^
arguments of the form
.IR hh [:\| mm [:\| ss ]].\^
The
.B \-i
option selects records at
.I sec\^
second intervals.
Otherwise, all intervals found in the data file are reported.
.PP
In either case,
subsets of data to be printed are specified by option:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1\ \ 'u"
.B \-u
Report
.SM CPU
utilization (the default):
.br
%usr, %sys, %wio, %idle \- portion of time running in user mode,
running in system mode, idle with some process waiting for block 
.SM I/O\*S,
and otherwise idle.
.TP
.B \-b
Report buffer activity:
.br
bread/s, bwrit/s \- transfers per second of data between system buffers
and disk or other block devices;
.br
lread/s, lwrit/s \- accesses of system buffers;
.br
%rcache, %wcache \- cache hit ratios, e.g., 1 \- bread/lread;
.br
pread/s, pwrit/s \- transfers via raw (physical) device mechanism.
.TP
.B \-d
Report activity for each block device, e.g., disk or tape drive:
.br
%busy, avque \- portion of time device was busy servicing a transfer request,
average number of requests outstanding during that time;
.br
r+w/s, blks/s \- number of data transfers from or to device,
number of bytes transferred in 512 byte units;
.br
avwait, avserv \- average time in ms. 
that transfer requests wait idly on queue,
and average time to be serviced 
(which for disks includes 
seek, rotational latency and data transfer times).
.TP
.B \-y
Report 
.SM TTY
device activity:
.br
rawch/s, canch/s, outch/s \- input character rate,
input character rate processed by canon,
output character rate;
.br
rcvin/s, xmtin/s, mdmin/s \- receive, transmit and modem interrupt rates.
.TP
.B \-c
Report system calls:
.br
scall/s \- system calls of all types;
.br
sread/s, swrit/s, fork/s, exec/s \- specific system calls;
.br
rchar/s, wchar/s \- characters transferred by read and write
system calls.
.TP
.B \-w
Report system swapping and switching activity:
.br
swpin/s, swpot/s, bswin/s, bswot/s \- number of transfers
and number of 512 byte units transferred for swapins
(including initial loading of some programs)
and swapouts;
.br
pswch/s \- process switches.
.TP
.B \-a
Report use of file access system routines:
.br
iget/s, namei/s, dirblk/s.
.TP
.B \-q
Report average queue length while occupied, and % of time occupied:
.br
runq-sz, %runocc \- run queue of processes in memory and runnable;
.br
swpq-sz, %swpocc \- swap queue of processes swapped out but ready to run.
.TP
.B \-v
Report status of text, process, inode and file tables:
.br
text-sz, proc-sz, inod-sz, file-sz \- entries/size
for each table, evaluated once at sampling point;
.br
text-ov, proc-ov, inod-ov, file-ov \- overflows occurring between sampling 
points.
.TP
.B \-m
Report message and semaphore activities:
.br
msg/s, sema/s \- primitives per second.
.TP
.B \-A
Report all data.  Equivalent to
.BR \-udqbwcayvm .
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
sar
.PP
shows today's
.SM CPU
activity so far.
.IP
sar \|\-o temp 60 10
.PP
watches
.SM CPU
activity evolve for 10 minutes and saves data.
.IP
sar \|\-d \|\-f temp
.PP
later reviews disk and tape activity from that period.
.SH FILES
.TP "\w'/usr/adm/sa/sa\f2dd\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.RI /usr/adm/sa/sa\| dd
daily data file, where
.I dd\^
are digits representing the day of the month.
.SH SEE ALSO
sag(1G).
.br
sar(1M)
.\"	@(#)sar.1	5.1 of 11/10/83
