.TH SMT 1
.SH NAME
smt \- streaming magnetic tape manipulation program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smt
[
.B \-t
.BI /dev/ tapename
]
.I command
[
.I count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Smt\^
is used to give commands to a Quarter Inch streaming magnetic tape drive.
If a tape name is not specified, the default tape drive is used.
.I Smt
uses the tape device
.BR /dev/rmt2 .
.I Smt
performs the requested operation once.  Operations
may be performed multiple times by specifying
.IR count .
.PP
The tape default device has the ioctl minor to facilitate the use of opening
and reading the tape when either using a no rewind device or a standard
rewind and write file mark on close of the tape device.
.PP
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.
.RS
.TP
.B eof
Write 
.I count
end-of-file marks at the current position on the tape.
.TP
.B fsf
Forward space
.I count
files.
.TP
.B fsr
Forward space 
.I count
records.
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind the tape
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B status
Print status information about the tape unit.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B retension
Retension the tape cartridge installed in the drive.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B erase
Erase the tape cartridge in the drive.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B help
Print command usage information about the command.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.RE
.PP
.I Smt\^
returns a 0 exit status when the operation(s) were successful,
.I smt
returns a 1 if the command was unrecognized,
and 2 if an operation failed.
.I Smt\^
without any arguments prints the help command.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
.in +\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
.ti -\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
/dev/rqic	raw magnetic quarter inch cartridge tape drive
.ti -\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
/dev/nrqic	no rewind quarter inch cartridge tape drive
.ti -\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
/dev/nrmt1	no rewind quarter inch cartridge tape drive
.ti -\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
/dev/rmt2	no rewind quarter inch cartridge tape drive
.ti -\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
/dev/rmt1	default raw magnetic quarter inch cartridge tape drive
.in -\w'/dev/rmtioctl\ \ 'u
.SH BUGS
.I Smt\^
sleeps when accessing the tape if tape is busy and awakes
only after the tape is closed from a previous operation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
smtio (7)
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man1/RCS/smt.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:41:35 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	smt.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:41:35  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" .Revision 1.2  85/05/02  18:21:14  robinf
.\" .Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide
.\" .
.\" .Revision 1.1  84/12/15  14:12:38  bob
.\" .Initial revision
.\" .
