'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NTERM 5
.SH NAME
nterm \- terminal driving tables for nroff
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR nroff (1)
uses driving table to customize its output for various types of output
devices, such as printing terminals, special word processing terminals
(such as Diablo, Qume, or NEC Spinwriter mechanisms), or special
output filter programs.  These driving tables are written as 
.SM ASCII
files, and are installed in
.BI /usr/lib/nterm/tab. name, 
where
.I name
is the name for that terminal types as given in 
.BR term (5).
.PP
The first line of a driving table should contain the name of the 
terminal: simply a string with no embedded white space.
"White space" means any combination of spaces, tabs and new-lines.
The next part of the driver table is structure as follows:
.RS
\f3bset\f1 [\f2integer\f1] (not supported in all versions of \f3nroff\f1)
.br
\f3breset\f1 [\f2integer\f1] (not supported in all versions of \f3nroff\f1)
.br
\f3Hor\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3Vert\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3Newline\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3Char\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3Em\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3Halfline\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3Adj\f1 [\f2integer\f1]
.br
\f3twinit\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3twrest\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3twnl\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3hlr\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3hlf\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3flr\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3bdon\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3bdoff\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3iton\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3itoff\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3ploton\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3plotoff\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3up\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3down\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3right\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
\f3left\f1 [\f2character string\f1]
.br
.RE
The meanings of these fields are as follows:
.sp
.TP 9
.B breset
bits to set in the 
.B c_oflag
field of the
.B termio
structure before output.
.TP
.B breset
bits to reset in the 
.B c_oflag
field of the
.B termio
structure before output.
.TP
.B Hor
horizontal resolution in units of 1/240 of an inch.
.TP
.B Vert
vertical resolution in units of 1/240 of an inch
.TP
.B Newline 
space moved by a newline (linefeed) character in units of 1/240 of an inch.
.TP
.B Char
quantum of character sizes, in units of 1/240 of an inch. (i.e., a character
is a multiple of Char units wide)
.TP
.B Em
size of an em in units of 1/240 of an inch.
.TP
.B Halfline
space moved by a half-linefeed (or half-reverse-linefeed) character
in units of 1/240 of an inch.
.TP
.B Adj
quantum of white space, in 1/240 of an inch (i.e., white spaces are a
multiple of Adj units wide)  Note:  if this is less than the size
of the space character, nroff will ouput fractional spaces using plot
mode.  Also, if the  \-e switch to nroff is used, Adj is set equal to
Hor by nroff.
.TP
.B twinit
sequence of characters used to initialize the terminal in a mode
suitable for nroff.
.TP
.B twrest
sequence of characters used to restore the terminal to normal mode.
.TP
.B twnl
sequence of characters used to move down one line.
.TP
.B hlr
sequence of characters used to move up one-half line.
.TP
.B hlf
sequence of characters used to move down one-half line.
.TP
.B flr
sequence of characters used to move up one line
.TP
.B bdon
sequence of characters used to turn on hardware boldface mode, if any.
.TP
.B bdoff
sequence of characters used to turn off hardware boldface mode, if any.
.TP
.B iton
sequence of characters used to turn on hardware italics mode, if any.
.TP
.B itoff
sequence of characters used to turn off hardware italics mode, if any.
.TP
.B ploton 
sequence of characters used to turn on hardware plot mode (for Diablo type
mechanisms) if any.
.TP
.B plotoff
sequence of characters used to turn off hardware plot mode (for Diablo type
mechanism) if any.
.TP
.B up
sequence of characters used to move up one resolution unit (Vert) in 
plot mode, if any.
.TP
.B down
sequence of characters used to move down one resolution unit (Vert) in
plot mode, if any.
.TP
.B right
sequence of characters used to move right one resolution unit (Hor)
in plot mode, if any.
.TP
.B left
sequence of characters used to move left one resolution unit (Hor)
in plot mode, if any.
.PP
This part of the driving table is fixed format, and you cannot change the
order of entries.  You should put entries of separate lines, and these
lines shoudl contain exactly two fields (no comments allowed) separated
by white space.  For example:
.RS
bset 0
.br
breset 0
.br
Hor
.RE
and so on.
.PP
Follow this first part of the driving table with a line
containing the word "charset," and then specify a table of
special characters that you want to include.  That is, specify
all the non-ASCII characters that
.BR nroff (1)
knows by two character names. such as 
\\hy.
If 
.B nroff
does not find the word "charset" where it expects to, it will abort with
an error message.
.PP
Each definition in the part after "charset" occupies one line and
has the following format:
.RS
chname width output
.RE
where "chname" is the (two letter) name of the special character,
"width"is its width in ems, and "output" is the string of characters
and escape sequences to send to the terminal to produce the special
character.
.PP
If any field in the "charset" part of the driving table does not pertain
to the output device, you may give that particular sequence as a null
string, or leave out the entry.  Special characters that do not have a 
definition in this field are ignored on output by 
.BR nroff (1).
.PP
You may put the "charset" definitions in any order, so it is possible to speed
up 
.B nroff
by putting the most used characters first.  For example,
.RS
charset
.br
em 1\-
.br
hy 1
.br
\\\- 1\-
.br
bu 1 + \\bo
.br
.RE
and so on.
.PP
The best way to create a terminal table for a new device is to take
an existing terminal table and edit it to suit your needs.  Once you
create such a file, put it in the directory
.B /usr/lib/nterm
and give it the name
.BI tab. xyz
where 
.I xyz
is the name of the terminal and the name that you pass
.B nroff
via the
.B \-T
option (for example, \f3nroff \-Txyz\f1).
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/nterm/tab.\f2name\f1	terminal files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nroff (1).
