'\"macro stdmacro
.\"	%W%
.TH TROFF 5
.SH NAME
troff \- description of output language
.SH DESCRIPTION
The device-independent
.I troff
outputs a pure ASCII description of a typeset document.
The
description specifies the typesetting device,
the fonts,
and
the point sizes of characters to be used as well as the
position of each character on the page.
A list of all the
legal commands follows.
Most numbers are denoted as
.I n
and are ASCII strings.
Strings inside of
.B [
.B ]
are optional.
.I Troff
may produce them,
but they are not required for the
specification of the language.
The character
.B \en
has the standard meaning of "newline" character.
Between commands white space has no meaning.
White space
characters are spaces and newlines.
.PP
.TP 20
.BI s n
The point size of the characters to be generated.
.TP 20
.BI f n
The font mounted in the specified position is to be used.
The number ranges from 0 to the highest font presently mounted.
0 is a special position,
invoked by
.IR troff ,
but not directly accessible to the troff user.
Normally fonts
are mounted starting at position 1.
.TP 20
.BI c x
Generate the character
.I x
at the current location on the page;
.I x
is a single ASCII character.
.TP 20
.BI C xyz
Generate the special character
.IR xyz .
The name of the character is delimited by white space.
The name will be one of the special characters legal
for the typesetting device as specified by the device specification
found in the file
.IR DESC .
This file resides in a directory specific for the typesetting
device.
(See
.IR font (4)
and
.BR /usr/lib/font/dev* .)
.TP 20
.BI H n
Change the horizonal position on the page to the number specified.
The number is in basic units of motions as specified by
.IR DESC .
This is an absolute "goto".
.TP 20
.BI h n
Add the number specified to the current horizontal position.
This is a relative "goto".
.TP 20
.BI V n
Change the vertical position on the page to the number specified
(down is positive).
.TP 20
.BI v n
Add the number specified to the current vertical position.
.TP 20
.I nnx
This is a two-digit number followed by an ASCII character.
The
meaning is a combination of
.BI h nn
followed by
.BI c x.
The two digits
.I nn
are added to the current horizontal position and then the
ASCII character,
.IR x ,
is produced.
This is the most common form of character specification.
.TP 20
.BI n b\ a
This command indicates that the end of a line has been reached.
No
action is required, though by convention the horizontal position is
set to 0.
.I Troff
will specify a resetting of the
.IR x , y
coordinates on the page before
requesting that more characters be printed.
The first number,
.IR b ,
is the amount of space before
the line and the second number,
.IR a ,
the amount of space after the line.
The second number is delimited by white space.
.TP 20
.B w
A
.B w
appears between words of the input document.
No action is
required.
It is included so that one device can be emulated more
easily on another device.
.TP 20
.BI p n
Begin a new page.
The new page number is included in this command.
The vertical position on the page should be set to 0.
.TP 20
.B {
Push the current environment,
which means saving the current point size,
font,
and location on the page.
.TP 20
.B }
Pop a saved environment.
.TP 20
.BI t xxxxx
Print the string of characters,
.IR xxxxx ,
using the natural width of each character to determine the next
x coordinate.
.I Troff
does not currently produce this form of command.
It is not recommended.
The characters will probably be too close
together.
.TP 20
.BI # \ ....\  \en
A line beginning with a pound sign is a comment.
.TP 20
.BI Dl \ x\ y \en
Draw a line from the current location to
.IR x , y .
At the end of the
drawing operation the current location will be
.IR x , y .
.TP 20
.BI Dc \ d \en
Draw a circle of diameter
.I d
with the leftmost edge being at the current location (x, y).
The current
location after drawing the circle will be
.RI x+ d ,y,
the rightmost edge
of the circle.
.TP 20
.BI De \ dx\ dy \en
Draw an ellipse with the specified axes.
.I dx
is the axis in the x direction and
.I dy
is the axis in the y direction.
The leftmost edge
of the ellipse will be at the current location.
After drawing the
ellipse the current location will be
.RI x+ dx ,y.
.TP 20
.BI Da \ dh1\ dv1\ dh2\ dv2 \en
Draw a counterclockwise arc from the current location to
.IR dh1i + dh2 ,
.IR dv1 + dv2
whose center is
.I dh1, dv1
from the current position.  The current location after drawing the arc
will be at its end.
.TP 20
.BI D~ \ x\ y\ x\ y... \en
Draw a spline curve (wiggly line) between each of the
.IR x , y
coordinate
pairs starting at the current location.
The final location will be
the final
.IR x , y
pair of the list.
Currently there may be no
more than 36
.IR x , y
pairs to this command.
.TP 20
.B x\ i[nit]\en
Initialize the typesetting device.
The actions required are
dependent on the device.
An
.B init
command will always occur before
any output generation is attempted.
.TP 20
.BI x\ T \ device \en
The name of the typesetter is
.IR device .
This is the same as the argument to the
.B \-T
option.
The information about the typesetter will be found in
the directory
.BI /usr/lib/font/dev device .
.TP 20
.BI x\ r[es] \ n\ h\ v \en
The resolution of the typesetting device in increments per inch is
.IR n .
Motion in the horizontal direction can take place in units of
.I h
basic increments.
Motion in the vertical direction can take place
in units of
.I v
basic increments.
For example,
the APS-5 typesetter has a basic resolution of
723 increments per inch and can move in 
either direction in 723rds of
an inch.
Its specification
is:
.RS 20
.B x res 723 1 1
.RE
.TP 20
.B x\ p[ause]\en
Pause.
Cause the current page to finish but do not relinquish the
typesetter.
.TP 20
.B x\ s[top]\en
Stop.
Cause the current page to finish and then relinquish the typesetter.
Perform any shutdown and bookkeeping procedures required.
.TP 20
.B x\ t[railer]\en
Generate a trailer.
On some devices no operation is performed.
.TP 20
.BI x\ f[ont] \ n\ name \en
Load the font
.I name
into position
.IR n .
.TP 20
.BI x\ H[eight] \ n \en
Set the character height to
.I n
points.
This causes the letters
to be elongated or shortened.
It does not affect the width
of a letter.
.TP 20
.BI x\ S[lant] \ n \en
Set the slant to
.I n
degrees.
Only some typesetters can do this
and not all angles are supported.
.\"	%W% of %G%
