'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ACCTCMS 1M
.SH NAME
acctcms \- command summary from per-process accounting records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctcms
[\^options\^] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Acctcms\^
reads one or more
.IR files ,
normally in the form described in
.IR acct (4).
It adds all records for processes that
executed identically-named commands,
sorts them,
and writes them to the standard output,
normally using an internal summary format.
The \f2options\fP are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-a
Print output in
.SM ASCII
rather than in the internal summary format.
The output includes command name,
number of times executed,
total kcore-minutes,
total
.SM CPU
minutes,
total real minutes,
mean size (in K),
mean
.SM CPU
minutes per invocation,
and ``hog factor'', as in
.IR acctcom (1).
Output is normally sorted by total kcore-minutes.
.TP
.B \-c
Sort by total
.SM CPU
time, rather than total kcore-minutes.
.TP
.B \-j
Combine all commands invoked only once under ``\(**\(**\(**other''.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort by number of command invocations.
.TP
.B \-s
Any file names encountered hereafter are already in internal summary format.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
A typical sequence for performing daily command accounting and
for
maintaining a running total is:
.PP
.RS
.nf
acctcms \|file \|.\|.\|. \|>today
cp \|total \|previoustotal
acctcms \|\-s \|today \|previoustotal \|>total
acctcms \|\-a \|\-s \|today
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(1M),
acctcom(1),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctprc(1M),
acctsh(1M),
fwtmp(1M),
runacct(1M),
acct(2),
acct(4),
utmp(4).
.\"	@(#)acctcms.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
