'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ACCTSH 1M
.SH NAME
chargefee, ckpacct, dodisk, lastlogin, monacct, nulladm, prctmp, prdaily, prtacct, runacct, shutacct, startup, turnacct \- shell procedures for accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/chargefee
login-name number
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/ckpacct
[\^blocks\^]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/dodisk
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/lastlogin
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/monacct
number
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/nulladm
file
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/prctmp
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/prdaily
\&[ mmdd ]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/prtacct
file [
\f3"\fPheading\f3"\fP
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/runacct
[\^mmdd\^] [\^mmdd state\^]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/shutacct
[
\f3"\fPreason\f3"\fP
]
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/startup
.PP
.B /usr/lib/acct/turnacct
.BR on " \(bv " off " \(bv " switch
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Chargefee\^
can be invoked to charge a
.I number\^
of units to
.IR login-name .
A record is written to
.BR /usr/adm/fee ,
to be merged with other accounting records during the night.
.PP
.I Ckpacct\^
should be initiated via \f2cron\fP(1M).
It periodically checks the size of
.BR /usr/adm/pacct .
If the size exceeds \f2blocks\fP, 1000 by default,
.I turnacct\^
will be invoked with argument
.IR switch .
If the number of free disk blocks in the
.B /usr
file system
falls below 500,
.I ckpacct
will automatically turn off the collection of
process accounting records via
the
.B off
argument to
.IR turnacct .
When at least this number of blocks is restored, the
accounting will be activated again.
This feature is sensitive to the frequency at which
.I ckpacct
is executed, usually by
.IR cron .
.PP
.I Dodisk\^
should be invoked by
.I cron\^
to perform the disk accounting functions.
.PP
.I Lastlogin\^
is invoked by
.I runacct\^
to update
.BR /usr/adm/acct/sum/loginlog ,
which shows the last date on which each person logged in.
.PP
.I Monacct\^
should be invoked once each month or each accounting
period.
.I Number\^
indicates
which month or period it is.
If
.I number
is not given, it defaults to the
current month (01\-12).
This default is useful if
.I monacct
is to executed via
.IR cron (1M)
on the first day of each month.
.I Monacct
creates summary files in
.B /usr/adm/acct/fiscal
and restarts summary files in
.BR /usr/adm/acct/sum .
.PP
.I Nulladm\^
creates
.I file\^
with mode 664 and insures owner and group are
.BR adm .
It is called by
various accounting shell procedures.
.PP
.I Prctmp\^
can be used to print the session record file (normally
.B /usr/adm/acct/nite/ctmp
created by
.I acctcon1\^
(see
.IR acctcon (1M)).
.PP
.I Prdaily\^
is invoked by
.I runacct\^
to format a report of the previous day's accounting data.
The report resides in
.BI /usr/adm/acct/sum/rprt mmdd\^
where
.I mmdd\^
is the month and day of the report.
The current daily accounting reports may be printed by typing
.IR prdaily .
Previous days' accounting reports can be printed by using the
.I mmdd
option and specifying the exact report date desired.
Previous daily reports are cleaned up
and therefore inaccessible after each invocation of
.IR monacct .
.PP
.I Prtacct\^
can be used to format and print any total accounting (\f3tacct\fP) file.
.PP
.I Runacct\^
performs the accumulation of connect,
process,
fee,
and disk accounting on a daily basis.
It also creates summaries of command usage.
For more information, see \f2runacct\fP(1M).
.PP
.I Shutacct\^
should be invoked during a system shutdown
(usually in
.BR /etc/shutdown )
to turn process accounting
off and append a
``reason'' record to
.BR /etc/wtmp .
.PP
.I Startup\^
should be called by
.B /etc/rc
to turn the accounting on
whenever the system is brought up.
.PP
.I Turnacct\^
is an interface to
.I accton\^
(see
.IR acct (1M))
to turn process accounting \f3on\fP or \f3off\fP.
The
.B switch\^
argument
turns accounting off,
moves the current
.B /usr/adm/pacct
to
the next free name in
.BI /usr/adm/pacct incr
(where
.I incr
is a number starting with
.B 1
and incrementing by one for each
additional
.B pacct
file),
then turns accounting back on again.
This procedure is called by
.I ckpacct\^
and thus can be taken care of by
the \f2cron\fP and used to keep \f3pacct\fP
to a reasonable size.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/adm/pacct[1-9]\ \ \ \ 'u +.5i
.nf
/usr/adm/fee	accumulator for fees
/usr/adm/pacct	current file for per-process accounting
/usr/adm/pacct\(**	used if pacct gets large and during
	execution of daily accounting procedure
/etc/wtmp	login/logoff summary
/usr/adm/acct/nite	working directory
/usr/lib/acct	holds all accounting commands listed in
	sub-class 1M of this manual
/usr/adm/acct/sum	summary directory, should be saved
.fi
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(1M),
acctcms(1M),
acctcom(1),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctprc(1M),
fwtmp(1M),
runacct(1M),
acct(2),
acct(4),
utmp(4).
.\"	@(#)acctsh.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
