'\"macro stdmacro
.TH BACKUP 1M
.SH NAME
backup \- interactive backup program for SGI IRIS workstation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/backup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Backup
is an interactive backup program designed for use on the
Silicon Graphics IRIS workstation.
.I Backup
will determine whether a full backup has been done in the past week.
If it has not been done
.I backup
will prompt the operator to mount cartridge tapes to backup both the root and
/usr file systems.
If a full backup has been done within the last week
.I backup
will prompt the operator to mount a cartridge tape to do an incremental backup
of the entire file system (both root and /usr).
.PP
.I Backup
uses one tape for doing incremental backups on Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays and a different tape for doing incremental backups on Tuesdays
and Thursdays.
It also alternates between two sets of tapes for doing full backups on
alternate weeks.
This causes backup versions to exist longer and also handles the case where
the disk fails in the middle of a backup in which case the backup
being made is incomplete.
.PP
.I Backup
uses
.I tar
to do the backups with relative pathnames relative to either
.B /
or
.BR /usr .
.I Backup
also keeps a log of backups in the file
.B /etc/back.log
which is written to backup tapes as the first file and named
.BR back.log .
.I Backup
is designed to handle systems with two file systems,
.B root
and
.BR /usr .
Other configurations require modifications to
.IR backup .
.SH FILES
.ta +10m
/etc/back.log	log of backups
.br
/etc/backfull.last	time of last full backup
.br
/etc/backincrO.last	time of last Monday/Wednesday/Friday backup
.br
/etc/backincrE.last	time of last Tuesday/Thursday backup
.br
/tmp/back?*	temporaries
.SH SEE ALSO
tar(1),
cpio(1).
.\" $Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/a_man/man1/RCS/backup.1m,v $
.\" @(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\" $Date: 89/03/27 16:20:11 $
