'\"macro stdmacro
.TH BRC 1M
.SH NAME
brc, bcheckrc, rc, powerfail \- system initialization 
shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/brc
.PP
.B /etc/bcheckrc
.PP
.B /etc/rc
.PP
.B /etc/powerfail
.SH DESCRIPTION
Except for
.IR powerfail ,
these shell procedures are executed via
entries in
.I /etc/inittab
(see
.IR inittab (4))
by
.IR init (1M)
when the system is changed out of
.SM
.I "SINGLE USER"
mode.
.I Powerfail
is executed whenever a system power failure is detected.
.PP
The
.I brc
procedure performs model-specific system initialization chores.
When invoked on a new system which lacks the file
.I /etc/fstab
(see
.IR mntent (4)),
it builds a default filesystem table.
.I brc
may also create special device links when run for the first time on a new
system.
.PP
The
.I bcheckrc
procedure performs all the necessary consistency checks to
prepare the system to change into multi-user mode.
It sets the system date, either by using the result of
.I rc.getdate (1M)
or prompting for it.
.I Bcheckrc
also checks the file systems with
.IR fsck (1M).
.PP
The
.I rc
procedure starts all system
daemons before the terminal
lines are enabled for multi-user mode.
In addition, file systems are mounted and
accounting, error logging, and system activity logging
.\"and the Remote Job Entry (\s-1RJE\s+1) system
are activated in this procedure.  After
.I rc
has completed its normal command sequence, it can optionally execute
the
.I "rc.local"
script.  The
.I "rc.local"
script should be used for per-site non-standard machine initialization,
and is guaranteed to not be provided or modified by Silicon Graphics
software distributions.
.PP
The
.I powerfail
procedure is invoked when the system detects a power
failure condition.
It shuts the system down using
.IR reboot (1M).
.\"Its chief duty is to reload any
.\"programmable micro-processors with their appropriate scripts,
.\"if appropriate.
.\"It also logs the fact that a power failure occurred.
.PP
These shell procedures, in particular
.IR rc ,
may be used for several run-level states.
.\"The \f2who\f1(1) command may be used to get the run-level information.
.SH SEE ALSO
init(1M),
fsck(1M),
killall(1M),
reboot(1M),
shutdown(1M),
.\"who(1),
inittab(4).
.\"	@(#)brc.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
