'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CRON 1M
.SH NAME
cron \- clock daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/cron
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cron\^
executes commands at specified dates and times
according to the instructions in the file
.BR /usr/lib/crontab .
Because
.I cron\^
never exits,
it should be executed only once.
This is best done by running
.I cron\^
from the initialization
process through the file
.B /etc/rc
(see
.IR init (1M)).
.PP
The file
.B crontab
consists of lines of six fields each.
The fields are separated by spaces or tabs.
The first five are integer patterns that
specify in order:
.RS .3i
minute (0-59),
.br
hour (0-23),
.br
day of the month (1-31),
.br
month of the year (1-12),
.br
and day of the week (0-6, with 0=Sunday).
.RE
.PP
Each of these patterns may
contain:
.RS .3i
a number in the (respective) range indicated above;
.br
two numbers separated by a minus (indicating an inclusive range);
.br
a list of numbers separated by commas (meaning all of these numbers); or
.br
an asterisk (meaning all legal values).
.RE
.PP
The sixth field is a string
that is executed by the shell at the
specified time(s).
A
.B %
in this field is translated into a new-line
character.
Only the first line (up to a
.B %
or the end of line)
of the command field is executed by the shell.
The other lines are made available to the
command as standard input.  A \\% yields %; \\\\ yields \\.  A newline preceded
with a backslash and any following blanks or tabs are stripped out.  Other
occurences of \\ are removed.
.PP
.I Cron\^
examines
.B crontab
once a minute to see
if it has changed;
if it has,
.I cron\^
reads it.
Thus it takes only a minute
for entries to become effective.
.SH EXAMPLE
If you add this entry to
.I /usr/lib/crontab ,
old 
.I vi
and 
.I ex
``preserved'' files are removed at 5:03 a.m. every day of the year:
.sp .5
(note: this is actually one line)
.sp .5
\f7\s-23 5 * * * find /usr/preserve -local -type f -atime +30 -mtime\\
+30 -print -exec rm -f "{}" ";"\f1\s+2
.bp
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/crontab
.br
/usr/adm/cronlog
.SH SEE ALSO
init(1M), sh(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A history of all actions by
.I cron\^
are recorded in
.BR /usr/adm/cronlog .
.SH BUGS
.I Cron\^
reads
.B crontab
only when
it
has changed, but it reads the in-core
version of that table once a minute.
A more efficient algorithm could be used.
The overhead in running
.I cron\^
is about one percent of the
.SM CPU\*S,
exclusive of any commands executed by
.IR cron .
.\"	@(#)cron.1m	5.1 of 11/1/83
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/a_man/man1/RCS/cron.1m,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:20:21 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	cron.1m,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:20:21  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.1  86/09/03  15:22:34  robinf
.\" Added comment markers to rcs comments
.\" 
.\"Revision 1.0  85/05/01  16:33:03  robinf
.\"Initial Revision
.\" Revision 1.2  84/11/15  10:10:13  bob
.\" Fixed to properly display backslashes.
.\" 
