'\"macro stdmacro
.de us
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'
..
.ds P UNIX
.TH FSCK 1M
.SH NAME
fsck, dfsck \- file system consistency check and interactive repair
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.BR /etc/fsck\0 [\
\f3\-y\f1\ ]
[\ 
.BR \-n\ ]
[\ 
.BR \-s X\ ]
[\ 
.BR \-S X\ ]
[\ 
.BR \-b "numbers\ ]"
[\ 
.BR \-t " file\ ]"
.in +\w'/etc/fsck\ \ 'u
[\ 
.BR \-q\ ]
[\ 
.BR \-D\ ]
[\ 
.BR \-f\ ]
[\ file-system .\^.\^.\ ]
.PP
.B /etc/dfsck
[\ options1\ ]
filsys1
.B .\^.\^.
.B \-
[\ options2\ ]
filsys2
.B .\^.\^.
.in
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Fsck
.I  fsck\^
audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions
for U\s-2NIX\s+2 file systems.
Bell file systems and Extent file systems are both supported
(see
.IR fs (4)).
If the file system is consistent then the number of files, number of blocks
used, and number of blocks free are reported.
If the file system is inconsistent the operator is prompted for a response
before each correction is attempted.
Most corrective actions will result in some loss
of data.
To determine the amount and 
severity of data lost, examine the diagnostic
output.
The default action for each consistency correction
is to wait for the operator to respond yes or no.
If the operator does not have write permission, 
.I fsck\^
will default to a 
.BR "\-n " action.
.PP
.I fsck\^
has more consistency checks than
its predecessors
.IR check ,
.IR dcheck ,
.IR fcheck ,
and
.I icheck\^
combined.
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
.IR fsck .
.TP 6
.B  \-y
Assume a yes response to all questions asked by 
.IR fsck .
.TP 6
.B  \-n
Assume a no response to all questions asked by 
.IR fsck ;
do not open the file system for writing.
.TP 6
.BR \-s \f2X
Ignore the actual free list and (unconditionally) reconstruct a new
one by rewriting the super-block of the file system.  
The file system should be unmounted doing this.  If unmounting the
file system
is not possible, be sure that the system is quiescent
and that you reboot it immediately afterwards.
This precaution is necessary so that the old, bad, in-core copy
of the superblock will not continue to be used, or written on the file system.
.IP
The
.BR \-s \f2X
option allows for creating an optimal free-list organization.
The following forms of
.I X\^
are supported for the following devices:
.sp
.nf
	\-s3 (\s-1RP\s+1\&03)
	\-s4 (\s-1RP\s+1\&04, \s-1RP\s+1\&05, \s-1RP\s+1\&06)
	\-s\f2Blocks-per-cylinder\f3:\f2Blocks-to-skip\f1 (for anything else)
.fi
.IP "" 6
If 
.I X\^
is not given,
the values used when the file system was created
are used.
If these values were not specified, then the value
.IB 400 : 7
is used.
The
.I X\^
parameter is meaningful only for Bell file systems.
It is ignored for Extent file systems.
.TP 6
.BR \-S \f2X
Conditionally reconstruct the free list. This option
is like
.BR \-s \f2X
above except that the free list is rebuilt only
if there were no discrepancies discovered in the
file system. Using
.B \-S
will force a no response to all questions asked
by
.IR fsck .
This option is useful for forcing free list reorganization
on uncontaminated file systems.
.TP 6
.BR \-b
Report files using any of the given physical block
.IR numbers.
.TP 6
.B \-t
If
.I fsck\^
cannot obtain enough memory to keep its tables,
it uses a scratch file. If the \f3\-t\fP option is
specified, the file named in the next argument
is used as the scratch file. Without the
.BR "\-t " flag,
.I fsck\^
will prompt the operator for the name of the
scratch file. The file chosen should not be on the
file system being checked, and if it is not
a special file or did not already exist, it is
removed when
.I fsck\^
completes.
.TP 6
.B \-q
Quiet
.I fsck.\^
Do not print size-check messages in Phase 1.
Unreferenced
.I fifos
will silently be removed. 
If
.I fsck
requires it, counts in the superblock will be automatically
fixed and the free list salvaged.
.TP 6
.B \-D
Directories are checked for bad blocks.
Useful after the system crashes.
.TP 6
.B \-f
Fast check.
Check block and sizes (Phase 1) and check the free list (Phase 5).
If it is necessary, the free list will be reconstructed (Phase 6).
.PP
If no
.I file-systems\^
are specified,
.I fsck\^
will read a list of default file systems from
the file
.IR /etc/fstab .
.PP
.ne 10
Inconsistencies checked are as follows:
.RS .3i
.PD 0
.TP 4
1.
Blocks claimed by more than one inode or the free list.
.TP 4
2.
Blocks claimed by an inode or the free list outside the range of the file system.
.TP 4
3.
Incorrect link counts.
.TP 4
4.
Size checks:
.IP "" 8
Incorrect number of blocks.
.br
Directory size not 16-byte aligned.
.TP 4
5.
Bad inode format.
.TP 4
6.
Blocks not accounted for anywhere.
.TP 4
7.
Directory checks:
.IP "" 8
File pointing to unallocated inode.
.br
Inode number out of range.
.TP 4
8.
Super block checks:
.IP "" 8
More than 65536 inodes.
.br
More blocks for inodes than there are in the file system.
.TP 4
9.
Bad free block list format.
.TP 4
10.
Total free block and/or free inode count incorrect.
.RE
.PD
.PP
Nonempty orphaned files and directories (allocated but unreferenced) are,
with the operator's concurrence, reconnected by
placing them in the 
.I lost+found
directory.
The user will be notified whether or not the file or directory is empty.
If it is empty,
.I fsck
will silently remove them.
.I fsck
will force the reconnection of nonempty directories.
The name assigned is the inode number.
The only restriction
is that the directory 
.I lost+found
must preexist
in the root of the file system being checked and
must have empty slots in which entries can be made.
This is accomplished by making 
.IR lost+found ,
copying a number of files to the directory, and then removing them
(before
.I
fsck
is executed). A utility, 
.IR mklost+found (1M), 
is provided to do this.
.PP
Checking the raw device is almost always faster and should be used
with everything but the
.I root
file system.  Do not check the raw device if it is mounted.
.PP
.SS Dfsck
.sp 1
.I dfsck
allows two file system checks on two different drives simultaneously.
.I options1
and
.I options2
are used to pass options to
.I fsck
for the two sets of file systems.
A
.B \-
is the separator between the file system groups.
.PP
The
.I dfsck
program permits an operator to interact with two
.IR fsck (1M)
programs
at once.
To aid in this,
.I dfsck
will print the file system name for each
message to the operator.
When answering a question from
.IR dfsck ,
the operator must prefix the response with a
.B 1
or a
.B 2
(indicating that the answer refers to the first or second file system group).
.PP
Do not use
.I dfsck
to check the
.I root
file system (because pipes are created).
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
/etc/fsck \-q /dev/md0a /dev/rmd0c
.PP
checks the consistency of a IRIS 1400 or 2400 workstation with a single disk.
.IP
/etc/fsck \-q /dev/md0a /dev/rmd0c /dev/rmd1[ac]
.PP
checks the consistency of a IRIS 1400 or 2400 workstation with two disks.
.SH FILES
/etc/fsck.bell
.br
/etc/fsck.efs
.br
/etc/fstab	default list of file systems to check.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
clri(1M),
mklost+found(1M),
ncheck(1M),
fs(4),
mntent(4),
crash(8)
.PP
``fsck'', 
.I "U\s-2NIX\s+2 Programmer's Manual, Volume IIB", 
Appendix A.
.SH BUGS
Inode numbers for
.B .
and
.B .\|.
in each directory should be checked for validity.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by 
.I fsck\^
are intended to be self-explanatory.
.\"	@(#)fsck.1m	5.1 of 11/1/83
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/a_man/man1/RCS/fsck.1m,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:20:26 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	fsck.1m,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:20:26  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.9  86/10/21  12:22:39  rmr
.\" new ref to UPM 2B
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.8  86/10/10  14:27:34  rmr
.\" *** empty log message ***
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7  86/10/03  15:40:39  oz
.\" *** empty log message ***
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  86/04/14  16:09:04  celia
.\" fixed ref.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  85/09/25  13:42:53  robinf
.\" Final version for Turbo Option
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  85/08/15  12:29:34  robinf
.\" Updates after 1st review for Turbo option
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  85/08/07  17:38:19  locke
.\" Turbo option update
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  85/05/01  16:56:21  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series workstation guide, Version 1.0
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  85/03/15  18:05:36  bob
.\" Localized.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  85/03/15  17:29:57  bob
.\" Mentioned fsdb, checkall, why dfsck shouldn't be used on root fs.
.\" 

