'\"macro stdmacro
.TH FWTMP 1M
.SH NAME
fwtmp, wtmpfix \- manipulate connect accounting records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/fwtmp
.RB [\^ \-ic \^]
.br
.B /usr/lib/acct/wtmpfix
[\^files\^]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Fwtmp
\f2Fwtmp\fP reads from the standard input and
writes to the standard output,
converting binary records of the type found in
.B wtmp
to formated \s-1ASCII\s0 records.
The \s-1ASCII\s0 version is useful to enable editing, via \f2ed\fP(1),
bad records or general purpose maintenance of the file.
.PP
The argument \f3\-ic\fP is used to denote that input is in \s-1ASCII\s0 form,
and output is to be written in binary form.
.SS Wtmpfix
.I Wtmpfix\^
examines the standard input or named files in
.B wtmp
format, corrects the time/date stamps to make the
entries consistent, and writes to the standard output.
A \f3\-\fP can be used in place of \f2files\fP to indicate
the standard input.
If time/date corrections are not performed,
.I acctcon1\^
will fault when it encounters certain date change records.
.PP
Each time the date is set,
a pair of date change records are written to
.BR /etc/wtmp .
The first record is the old date denoted
by
the string
.B "old time"
placed in
the line field and the
flag
.SM
.B OLD_TIME
placed
in the type field of the \f3<utmp.h>\fP structure.
The second record specifies the new date and is
denoted by the string
.B "new time"
placed in the line field and the flag
.SM
.B NEW_TIME
placed in the type field.
.I Wtmpfix\^
uses these records to synchronize all time stamps in the file.
.PP
In addition to correcting time/date stamps,
\f2wtmpfix\fP will check the validity
of the name field to ensure that it consists
solely of alphanumeric characters, a
.B $
or spaces.
If it encounters a name that is considered invalid,
it will change the login name to
.SM
.B INVALID
and write a diagnostic to the standard error.
In this way,
.I wtmpfix
reduces the chance that
.I acctcon1
will fail when processing connect accounting records.
.SH FILES
/etc/wtmp
.br
/usr/include/utmp.h
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(1M),
acctcms(1M),
acctcom(1),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctprc(1M),
acctsh(1M),
runacct(1M),
acct(2),
acct(4),
utmp(4).
.\"	@(#)fwtmp.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
