'\"macro stdmacro
.TH HYP 1M
.SH NAME
hyp \- hyperchannel table translation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B
hyp
[-f input file] [-h hostname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I
Hyp
takes an input file describing a hyperchannel network layout, and
produces a routing map for a specific host.  It is intended to
be used as a filter in front of \f2hyroute\fP.  It is only useful if
there is some non-linear topology associated with the network.
It allows maintenance of one table, where multiple hyroute tables
are needed in a given network.
.PP
The 
.B \-f
option allows you to read from a specific file.
If no input file is specified, \f2hyp\fP looks for \f2Hy.net\fP then 
\f2hy.net\fP.  Specifying a dash (\-) for the input file
directs \f2hyp\fP to read from the standard
input.
.PP
By default, \f2hyp\fP will generate the routing map for the local host.
The 
.B \-h
option allows you to produce a routing table for a host other than
the local host.
.I
Hyp
produces a map suitable for input to \f2hyroute\fP on the standard output,
and a list of errors it found on the standard error.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
The input file is composed of two parts \- a list of hosts and their addresses
and a description of the network topology.
.PP
The list of hosts is a arranged as follows:
.IP
.B
hosts
.br
\f2hostname\fP	\f30x\f2address\fP
.PP
where \f2hostname\fP is the name of a host attached to the network,
and \f2address\fP is a four hexadecimal digit address that the IP layer is 
listening on.  The token hosts can be followed by up to 256 
destinations, which is the current limit on how many the kernel
can address.
.PP
The network topology is described as follows:
.IP
\f3net\fP
.br
\f3trunk\fP   \f2#\fP[\f3,\f2#\fP[\f3,\f2#\fP[\f3,\f2#\fP]]]   [\f2hostname\fP  ...]
.PP
There can be any number of \f2net\fP constructs, each of which specifies
a group of hosts connected to a particular trunk.  In each \f2net\fP, there
can be from one to four \f2trunk(s)\fP, listing the physical trunks
to which these hosts are attached.  Each \f2trunk\fP is numbered either
0, 1, 2, or 3.
.PP
The input file may also contain shell style comments.
.PP
The following is an example \f2Hy.net\fP file.
.IP
.nf
# A bunch of remote workstations and some VAXen.
net
	trunk 3,2 navier3-hy amelia-hy wilbur-hy rhodan-hy

# A bunch of local workstations
net
	trunk 3,2 navier2-hy godzilla-hy

# Some VAXen (short trunks)
net
	trunk 3,2 navier0-hy navier1-hy fred-hy orville-hy 

# Everybody is on these two trunks
net
	trunk 1,0 navier3-hy amelia-hy wilbur-hy rhodan-hy
		  navier2-hy godzilla-hy
		  navier0-hy navier1-hy fred-hy orville-hy 

hosts
# The Cray 2
navier-hy	0xc415
navier1-hy	0xc200
navier2-hy	0x1100
navier3-hy	0x2100
# IRIS Workstations
godzilla-hy	0x2203
rhodan-hy	0x2602
# VAXen
fred-hy		0x1200
orville-hy	0x1201
amelia-hy	0x2400
wilbur-hy	0x2401
.fi
.RS 5
.I
.br
.SH FILES
.PP
[Hh]y.net	network topology description
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
hyroute(1M)
