'\"macro stdmacro
.TH INSTALL 1M
.SH NAME
install \- install commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +5m
.ti -5m
.B "install"
.RB  [ \-U " SYS5]"
.RB  [ \-c " dira]"
.RB  [ \-f " dirb]"
.RB  [ \-i ]
.RB  [ \-n " dirc]"
.RB  [ \-u " user]"
.RB  [ \-g " group]"
.RB  [ \-m " mode]"
.RB  [ \-F ]
.RB  [ \-o ]
.RB  [ \-s ]
.RB  [ \-S ]
file [dirx .\|.\|.]
.ti -5m
.B "install"
.RB  [ \-U " BSD42]"
.RB  [ \-c ]
.RB  [ \-o " owner]"
.RB  [ \-u " user]"
.RB  [ \-g " group]"
.RB  [ \-m " mode]"
.RB  [ \-F ]
.RB  [ \-s ]
.RB  [ \-S ]
file destination
.ti -5m
.B "/etc/install ..."
.in -5m
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Install\^
is a command most commonly used in "makefiles"
(see
.IR make\^ (1))
to install a
.I file\^
(updated target file) in a specific place within a file system.
Each
.I file\^
is installed by copying it into the appropriate directory, thereby retaining the
mode and owner of the original command.
The program prints messages telling the user exactly what files it is
replacing or creating and where they are going.
.PP
This
.I install
has all of the features of both the System V and BSD4.2 systems.
By default
.I install
recognizes the System V (and non-conflicting BSD4.2) flags.
This default may be overridden by defining an environment variable
(see
.IR sh (1),
.IR csh (1),
.IR env (1),
and
.IR environ (5))
called
.B INSTALLSYS
which may be set to
.B BSD42
to operate in the BSD4.2 style; it may be set to
.B SYS5
to specify System V style.
The style may also be specified on the command line with the
.B -U
flag followed by either
.B SYS5
or
.BR BSD42 ,
overriding both the default and environment specifications.
.PP
Note that by default the System V style
.I copies
the file and
.I does not
change the modes of an existing file in the install directory.
BSD4.2
.I moves
the file and
.I does
change the modes of an existing file in the install directory to
mode 755 with an owner and group of bin.
In both styles, if any of the
.B -u
.B -o
.B -g
.B -m
or
.B -F
flags are specified then the installed file is always
.IR chmod ed,
.IR chgrp ed,
and
.IR chown ed.
In BSD4.2 style, a
.B -c
flag will cause the file to be
.I copied
rather than
.IR moved .
.PP
If no options or directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)"
are given to the System V style
.IR install ,
it will search
a set of default directories
.RB ( /bin ,
.BR /usr/bin ", " /etc ", " /lib ,
and
.BR /usr/lib ,
in that order)
for a file with the same name as 
.IR file .
When the first occurrence is found,
.I install\^
issues a message saying that it is overwriting that file with
.IR file ,
and proceeds to do so.
If the file is not found, the program states this and exits without
further action.
.PP
If one or more directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)"
are specified after
.IR file ,
those directories will be searched before the directories specified
in the default list.
.PP
If the BSD4.2 style is selected then there must be
exactly two arguments after any flags,
the first being the file to install and the second being the destination.
The destination may be either the directory where the file should be
installed or the entire pathname including the file name itself.
.PP
.I Install
refuses to move a file onto itself.
Options marked with
.B \u\(dg\d
are particular to this implementation.
.PP
The meanings of the System V style options are:
.PP
.TP "\w'\f3-c\f2 dira\f1\ \ \ \ 'u"
.BI \-c\^ dira
Installs a new command (\f2file\fP\^) in the directory specified by
.IR dira ,
only if it is not found.
If it is found,
.I install\^
issues a message saying that the file already
exists, and exits without overwriting it.
May be used alone or with the
.B \-s
option.
.TP
.BI \-f\^ dirb
Forces
.I file\^
to be installed in given directory, whether or not one already exists.
If the file being installed does not already exist, the mode and owner
of the new file will be set to \f3755\fP and \f3bin\fP, respectively.
If the file already exists, the mode and owner will be that of the
already existing file.
May be used alone or with the
.B \-o
or
.B \-s
options.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignores default directory list, searching only through the given directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)."
May be used alone or with any other options other than
.B \-c
and
.BR \-f .
.TP
.BI \-n\^ dirc
If
.I file\^
is not found in any of the searched directories, it is put in the directory
specified in
.IR dirc .
The mode and owner of the new file will be set to \f3755\fP and \f3bin\fP,
respectively.
May be used alone or with any other options other than
.B \-c
and
.BR \-f .
.TP
.B \-o
If
.I file\^
is found, this option saves the ``found'' file by moving it to
.BI \s-1OLD\s0 file\^
in the directory in which it was found.
This option is useful when installing a normally text busy file such as
.BR /bin/sh .
.TP
.B \-s
Suppresses printing of messages other than error messages.
May be used alone or with any other options
.TP
.BI \-u\^ user \u\(dg\d
The user (owner) of the installed file is changed to
.IR user .
This implies the
.B -F
flag.
By default the user is changed to
.I bin
if the file does not already exist in the install directory and left
as it is otherwise.
.TP
.BI \-g\^ group \u\(dg\d
The group of the installed file is changed to
.IR group .
This implies the
.B -F
flag.
By default the group is changed to
.I bin
if the file does not already exist in the install directory and left
as it is otherwise.
.TP
.BI \-m\^ mode \u\(dg\d
The mode of the installed file is changed to
.IR mode .
This implies the
.B -F
flag.
By default the mode is changed to
.I 755
if the file does not already exist in the install directory and left
as it is otherwise.
.TP
.B -F\u\(dg\d
Force a
.IR chmod ,
.IR chgrp ,
and a
.I chown
to be performed even if the file already exists in the install directory.
Unless specified otherwise, the mode will be set to
.I 755
and the user and group will be set to
.IR bin .
.TP
.B \-S\u\(dg\d
The binary is stripped of its symbol table after being installed
(see
.IR strip (1)).
.TP
.BI \-U\^ unix \u\(dg\d
.IR Install 's
style will be that of the standard
.I install
on the \s-2UNIX\s0 version specified, where
.I unix
is either
.B SYS5
for System V style or
.B BSD42
for Berkeley Distribution 4.2 style.
.PP
The meanings of the BSD 4.2 style options are:
.TP
.BI \-o\^ owner
The owner (user) of the installed file is changed to
.IR owner .
By default the owner is changed to be that of the person doing the
installation.
.TP
.BI \-g\^ group
The group of the installed file is changed to
.IR group .
By default the group is changed to
.I staff
if root is doing the installation or to the group of the install
directory otherwise.
.TP
.BI \-m\^ mode
The mode of the installed file is changed to
.IR 755 .
By default the mode is changed to
.IR 755 .
.TP
.B \-c
The file is copied rather than moved.
.TP
.B \-s
The binary is stripped of its symbol table after being installed
(see
.IR strip (1)).
.TP
.BI \-u\^ user \u\(dg\d
The user (owner) of the installed file is changed to
.IR user .
.ne 5
.TP
.B \-S\u\(dg\d
The binary is stripped of its symbol table after being installed
(see
.IR strip (1)).
.ne 6
.TP
.BI \-U\^ unix \u\(dg\d
.IR Install 's
style will be that of the standard
.I install
on the \s-2UNIX\s0 version specified, where
.I unix
is either
.B BSD42
for Berkeley Distribution 4.2 style
or
.B SYS5
for System V style.
.SH EXAMPLES
.de Ex
.sp
.nf
.in +10m
..
.de Ee
.fi
.in -10m
..
To install a new version of the program
.B ls
in whatever system directory it belongs in do
.Ex
install ls
.Ee
To install a new version of
.B rogue
in
.B /usr/games
do either
.Ex
install -f /usr/games -u games -g games -m 4755 rogue
.Ee
or
.Ex
setenv INSTALLSYS BSD42
install -o games -g games -m 4755 rogue /usr/games
.Ee
A new version of
.B sh
may be installed with
.Ex
install -U SYS5 -o -f /bin sh
.Ee
.SH SEE ALSO
make(1), chown(1), chmod(1), cp(1), strip(1),
sh(1), csh(1), env(1), environ(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A non-zero exit code is returned on failure along with an error
message.
.\"	@(#)install.1m	5.1 of 11/1/83
.\" $Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/a_man/man1/RCS/install.1m,v $
.\" @(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\" $Date: 89/03/27 16:20:39 $
