'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.install @(#)install	30.4 of 12/25/85
.TH INSTALL.4D 1M
.SH NAME
Install \- install commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/Install
.RB  [ \-c " dira]"
.RB  [ \-f " dirb]"
.RB  [ \-i ]
.RB  [ \-n " dirc]"
.RB  [ \-m " mode]"
.RB  [ \-u " user]"
.RB  [ \-g "\0group]"
.RB  [ \-o ]
.RB  [ \-s ]
.RB  [ \-F " dirb]"
.RB  [ \-dir ]
.RB  [ \-ln " source]"
.RB  [ \-lns " source]"
.RB  [ \-src "\0source]"
.RB  [ \-idb " idbattr]"
filelist [dirx .\|.\|.]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Install\^
command is most commonly used in ``makefiles''
[See
.IR make (1)]
to install a
.I filelist\^
(a single updated target file or a quoted list of several target files) in a
specific place within a file system.
Each file in
.I filelist\^
is installed by copying it into the appropriate directory, thereby retaining the
mode and owner of the original command.
The files in
.I filelist\^
may be simple filenames in the current directory or relative pathnames
containing directory components.
In the latter case, the directory components will be created with default mode
and ownership if they do not exist already in the target tree.
The program prints messages telling the user exactly what files it is
replacing or creating and where they are going.
.PP
If no options or directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)"
are given,
.I Install\^
will search
a set of default directories
.RB ( /bin ,
.BR /usr/bin ", " /etc ", " /lib ,
and
.BR /usr/lib ,
in that order)
for a file with the same name as the current file in
.IR filelist .
When the first occurrence is found,
.I Install\^
issues a message saying that it is overwriting that file with
the current file
and proceeds to do so.
If the file is not found, the program states this and exits without
further action.
.PP
If one or more directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)"
are specified after
.IR filelist ,
those directories will be searched before the directories specified
in the default list.
In any case the target directory selected will be prefixed by the value of
the environment variable
.BR ROOT .
.PP
Unless otherwise specified, the
.B \-idb
option may be used with any other options.
The meanings of the options are:
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI \-c "  dira\^"
Installs new commands (\f2filelist\fP\^) in the directory specified by
.IR dira ,
only if they are
not
found.
If any file in
.IR filelist\^
is found,
.I Install\^
issues a message saying that the file already
exists, and exits without overwriting it.
May be used alone or with the
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-u ,
.BR \-g ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-ln ,
.BR \-lns ,
and
.B \-src
options.
.TP 15
.BI \-f "  dirb\^"
Forces files in
.I filelist\^
to be installed in the given directory, whether or not they already exist.
If a file being installed does not already exist, the mode and owner
of the new file will be set to \f3755\fP and \f3bin\fP, respectively.
If the file already exists, the mode and owner will be that of the
already existing file.
May be used alone or with the
.B \-o
or
.B \-s
options.
.TP 15
.B \-i
Ignores the default directory list, searching only through the given
directories
.RI ( dirx " .\|.\|.)."
May be used alone or with any options other than
.B \-c
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-F ,
and
.BR \-dir .
.TP 15
.BI \-n "  dirc\^"
If a file in
.I filelist\^
is not found in any of the searched directories, it is put in the directory
specified in
.IR dirc .
The mode and owner of the new file will be set to \f3755\fP and \f3bin\fP,
respectively.
May be used alone or with any options other than
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-F ,
and
.BR \-dir .
.TP 15
.BI \-m "  mode\^"
The mode of the new file is set to
.IR mode "."
Available only to the superuser; may not be used with
.BR \-f .
.TP 15
.BI \-u "  user\^"
The owner of the new file is set to
.IR user "."
Available only to the superuser; may not be used with
.BR \-f .
.TP 15
.BI \-g "  group\^"
The group id of the new file is set to
.IR group "."
Available only to the superuser; may not be used with
.BR \-f .
.TP 15
.B \-o
If a file in
.I filelist\^
is found, this option saves the ``found'' file by copying it to
.BI \s-1OLD\s0 file\^
in the directory in which it was found.
This option is useful when installing a frequently used file such as
.I /bin/sh
or
.IR /etc/getty ,
where the existing file cannot be removed.
.B -o
may be used alone or with any options other than
.BR \-c .
.TP 15
.B \-s
Suppresses printing of messages other than error messages.
May be used alone or with any other options.
.TP 15
.BI \-F " dirb\^"
Like
.BR -f ,
but does not force mode and ownership of a new file to that of the old one
if it exists in
.IR dirb .
May be used with any options other than
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-n ,
and
.BR \-dir .
.TP 15
.B \-dir
Takes
.I filelist
to be a list of directories to be created in the target tree.  Directory
names will be prefixed with the value of the
.B ROOT
environment variable.
May be used with any options other than
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-F ,
and
.BR \-n .
.TP 15
.BI \-ln " source\^"
Makes hard links to the installed file
.I source\^
(prefixed by
.BR ROOT )
from the files listed in
.IR filelist .
May not be used with
.BR -f ,
.BR -lns ,
and
.BR -src .
.TP 15
.BI \-lns " source\^"
Makes symbolic links to the installed file
.I source\^
(prefixed by
.BR ROOT )
from the files listed in
.IR filelist .
May not be used with
.BR -f ,
.BR -ln ,
and
.BR -src .
.TP 15
.BI \-src " source\^"
Uses
.I source
as the pathname to the single source file to be installed.  This option allows
renaming to be combined with installation.
.TP 15
.BI \-idb " idbattr\^"
Ignored by this version of
.IR Install ,
this option allows arbitrary attributes to be passed to an installation
database initializer.
.SH NOTES
.I Install
is provided for compatibility with the IRIS 4D software building methods.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
make(1)
.br
install.1m.


