'\"macro stdmacro
.TH LPADMIN 1M
.SH NAME
lpadmin \- configure the \s-1LP\s+1 spooling system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/lpadmin
.BR \-p \|printer
[\|options\|]
.br
.B /usr/lib/lpadmin
.BR \-x \|dest
.br
.B /usr/lib/lpadmin
.BR \-d [dest]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lpadmin
configures
.SM LP
spooling systems
to describe printers, classes
and devices.
It is used to add and remove destinations,
change membership in classes,
change devices for printers,
change printer interface programs
and to change the system default destination.
.I lpadmin
may not be used when
the
.SM LP
scheduler,
.IR lpsched (1M),
is running,
except where noted below.
.PP
Exactly one of the
.BR \-p ,
.B \-d
or
.B \-x
options must be present for every legal invocation of
.IR lpadmin .
.TP "\w'\-iinterface\ \ \ \ 'u"
.BR \-d [\f2dest\fP]
makes
.IR dest ,
an existing destination,
the new system default destination.
If
.I dest
is not supplied,
then there is no system default destination.
This option may be used when
.IR lpsched (1M)
is running.
No other
.I options
are allowed with
.BR \-d .
.TP
.BI \-x dest
removes destination
.I dest
from the
.SM LP
system.
If
.I dest
is a printer
and is the only member of a class,
then the class will be deleted, too.
No other
.I options
are allowed with
.BR \-x .
.TP
.BI \-p printer
names a
.I printer
to which all of the
.I options
below refer.
If
.I printer
does not exist
then it will be created.
.PP
The following
.I options
are only useful with
.B \-p
and
may appear in any order.
For ease of discussion,
the printer will be referred to as
.I P
below.
.TP "\w'\-iinterface\ \ \ \ 'u"
.BI \-c class
inserts printer
.I P
into the specified
.IR class .
.I Class
will be created
if it does not already exist.
.TP
.BI \-e printer
copies an existing
.I printer's
interface program
to be the new interface program
for
.IR P .
.TP
.B \-h
indicates that
the device associated with
.I P
is hardwired.
This
.I option
is assumed
when creating a new printer
unless the
.B \-l
.I option
is supplied.
.TP
.BI \-i interface
establishes a new interface program for
.IR P .
.I Interface
is the path name of the new program.
.TP
.B \-l
indicates that the device associated with
.I P
is a login terminal.
The
.SM LP
scheduler,
.IR lpsched ,
disables all login terminals automatically
each time it is started.
Before re-enabling
.IR P ,
its current
.I device
should be established using
.IR lpadmin .
.TP
.BI \-m model
selects a model interface program for
.IR P .
.I Model
is one of the model interface names
supplied with the
.SM LP
software
(see
.I Models
below).
.TP
.BI \-r class
removes printer
.I P
from the specified
.IR class .
If
.I P
is the last member of the
.IR class ,
then the
.I class
will be removed.
.TP
.BI \-v device
associates a new
.I device
with printer
.IR P .
.I Device
is the pathname of a file
that is writable by the
.SM LP
administrator,
.IR lp .
Note that there is nothing to stop an administrator
from associating the same
.I device
with more than one
.IR printer .
If only the
.B \-p
and
.B \-v
.I options
are supplied,
then
.I lpadmin
may be used
while the scheduler is running.
.SS Restrictions.
When creating a new printer,
the
.B \-v
option
and one of the
.BR \-e ,
.B \-i
or
.B \-m
options must be supplied.
Only one of the
.BR \-e ,
.B \-i
or
.B \-m
options may be supplied.
The
.B \-h
and
.B \-l
keyletters
are mutually exclusive.
Printer and class names
may be no longer than 14 characters
and must consist entirely of the characters
.BR A - Z ,
.BR a - z ,
.BR 0 - 9 ,
and
.B _
(underscore).
.SS Models.
Model printer interface programs are supplied
with the
.SM LP
software.
They are shell procedures which interface
between
.I lpsched
and devices.
All models reside in the directory
.B /usr/spool/lp/model
and may be used as is with
.B lpadmin
.BR \-m .
Alternatively,
.SM LP
administrators may modify copies of models
and then use
.B lpadmin
.B \-i
to associate them with printers.
The following list
describes the
.I models
and
lists the options which they may be given on the
.I lp
command line
using the
.B \-o
keyletter:
.TP "\w'dumb\ \ \ \ 'u"
.B dumb
interface for a line printer without special functions and protocol.
Form feeds are assumed.
This is a good model to copy and modify for printers
which do not have models.
.TP
.B 1640
Diablo 1640 terminal
running at 1200 baud,
using
.SM XON\s+1/\s-1XOFF
protocol.
Options:
.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-12
12-pitch
(10-pitch is the default).
This option
should never be used in conjunction
with
.IR nroff .
.TP
.B \-f
don't use the
.IR 450 (1)
filter.
The output has been pre-processed
by either
.IR 450 (1)
or the
\f2nroff\^\fP 450 driving table.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.B hp
Hewlett Packard 2631A line printer at 2400 baud.
Options:
.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-c
compressed print
.TP
.B \-e
expanded print
.RE
.PD
.TP
.B prx
Printronix P300 printer using
.SM XON\s+1/\s-1XOFF
protocol at 1200 baud.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
1.
To set up a printer class called
.B usual
that uses a dumb printer called
.B fast
which runs at 9600 baud with 
.SM XON\s+1/\s-1XOFF
protocol on port
.BR /dev/ttyd2 ,
do the following.
In single-user mode, add the following commands to
.BR /etc/rc.local :
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
sleep 10000000 < /dev/ttyd2 &
sleep 3
stty 9600 ixon icanon < /dev/ttyd2 &
.fi
.RE
.PP
.in +4n
Bring the system to multi-user mode and issue the following commands as root:
.in
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
/usr/lib/lpshut
/usr/lib/lpadmin \-pfast \-mdumb \-cusual \-v/dev/ttyd2
/usr/lib/lpadmin \-dusual
/usr/lib/accept usual
/usr/lib/accept fast
enable fast
/usr/lib/lpsched
lpstat \-t
.fi
.RE
.PP
.in +4n
The configuration will be remembered after subsequent rebooting.
To print the file
.BR /etc/passwd ,
issue the command:
.in
.PP
.RS 10
lp /etc/passwd
.RE
.TP 4
2.
Assuming there is an existing Hewlett Packard 2631A line printer named
.IR hp2 ,
it will use the
.B hp
model interface after the command:
.PP
.RS 10
/usr/lib/lpadmin\ \ \-php2\ \ \-mhp
.RE
.TP 4
3.
To obtain compressed print on
.IR hp2 ,
use the command:
.PP
.RS 10
lp\ \ \-dhp2\ \ \-o\-c\ \ files
.RE
.TP 4
4.
A Diablo 1640 printer called \f2st1\fP
can be added to the \s-1LP\s+1 configuration
with the command:
.PP
.RS 10
/usr/lib/lpadmin\ \ \-pst1\ \ \-v/dev/tty20\ \ \-m1640
.RE
.TP 4
5.
An \f2nroff\fP document may be printed on
.I st1
in any of the following ways:
.PP
.RS 10
nroff\ \ \-T450\ \ files\ \ \(bv\ \ lp\ \ \-dst1\ \ \-of
.br
nroff\ \ \-T450\-12\ \ files\ \ \(bv\ \ lp\ \ \-dst1\ \ \-of
.br
nroff\ \ \-T37\ \ files\ \ \(bv\ \ col\ \ \(bv\ \ lp\ \ \-dst1
.RE
.TP 4
6.
The following command prints the password file on
.I st1
in 12-pitch:
.PP
.RS 10
lp\ \ \-dst1\ \ \-o12\ \ /etc/passwd
.RE
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/lp/\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
450(1),
accept(1M),
enable(1),
lp(1),
lpsched(1M),
lpstat(1).
.\"	@(#)lpadmin.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/a_man/man1/RCS/lpadmin.1m,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:20:48 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	lpadmin.1m,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:20:48  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.2  86/09/03  15:25:54  robinf
.\" Added comment markers to rcs comments
.\" 
.\"Revision 1.1  85/05/01  16:58:10  robinf
.\"Updates from 2000 Series workstation guide, Version 1.0
.\" Revision 1.2  85/03/15  15:41:49  bob
.\" Documented how to set up.
.\" 
