'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MKBOOT 1M
.SH NAME
mkboot \- make a bootable tape for system restoration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mkboot
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-s
standalonedir
] [
.B \-r
rootdev
] [
filesys ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mkboot
creates a tape with the contents of the disk at the time it is invoked.
This tape can restore a system to a functional state,
regardless of the contents of the disk.  
You can use this tape to recover
from a crash, or to bring up a new disk.
.PP
The contents of the tape depend on the model of the machine.
For an IRIS 2400 or 2500, the first file is a cpio-format
archive of necessary standalone programs; the second is a ``dd''
image (see
.IR dd (1))
of 
the special boot partition;
the third is a ``dd'' image of the root file system;
the fourth and succeeding files are cpio-format archives of
any user file systems specified by the 
.I filesys
argument.
.PP
For an IRIS 2400T, 2500T, 3020, or 3030,
the first file is a cpio-format archive of
necessary standalone programs; the second is a ``dd'' image of the
root file system; the third and succeeding files are cpio-format archives of
any user file systems specified by the
.I filesys
argument.
.PP
The standalone programs are normally taken from 
.IR /stand ;
the \f3\-s\fP option specifies an alternate directory.  The root
file system is normally \f3md0a\fP,
\f3ip0a\fP, or \f3si0a\fP, depending on the system
model; the \f3\-r\fP option specifies an alternate (block) device.
.PP
The \f3\-t\f1 option specifies a TCP host where the tape drive resides.
The \f3\-u\f1 option specifies a userid other than ``guest'' to be
used when doing remote TCP commands to the host specified in
the \f3\-t\f1 option.  The userid executing 
.I mkboot
must be able to ``rsh host \-l username'' in order for
.IB mkboot \-t
to work.
.PP
The remaining options are the path names of directories to be included on
the tape; no user file systems are included by default.
Executing
.I mkboot
with no options makes a bootable tape of the root file system,
and includes the special boot partition for IRIS 2400s and 2500s only.
.PP
To use the tape to restore a system, boot the standalone program 
.IR mdfex ,
.IR ipfex ,
or 
.I sifex
from the
first file on the tape.
For an IRIS 2400 or 2500, copy tape file 2 (file system 
.BR g ,
the special boot partition)
and then tape file 3 (file system
.BR a ,
the root file system)
onto the disk (see example below).
For an IRIS 2400T, 2500T, 3020, or 3030, 
copy tape file 2 (file system
.BR a ,
the root file system).
.PP
When the system is restored from tape,
all previous contents on the root file
system of the disk are lost.  Bring up the system in 
single-user mode.  To restore user file systems, run
.IR mkfs (1M)
to
create the required file systems on disk.
Use 
.IR mt (1)
to rewind the tape to be copied from, and to skip forward to the third
file (fourth file for IRIS 2400 or 2500 users).
Read in the user file systems with
.IR cpio (1).
.PP
Reboot the system from the default boot file on the disk.
.ne 7
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
This command creates a standard ``mkboot'' tape.
.IP
/etc/mkboot /usr
.PP
The next example restores
the special boot partition and 
the root file system on an IRIS 2400.
For an IRIS 2500, substitute \f3ipfex\fP for \f3mdfex\fP.
User responses are written in \f3bold\fP.
.IP
.nf
iris> \f3b mt0:mdfex <return>\fP
mdfex 2.4> \f3t\fP
Tape to Disk Copy
Tape file (2)? \f3<return>\fP	
Unit (0) = \f3<return>\fP
File system (a)? \f3g<return>\fP	
Type 'go<return>' to begin \f3go<return>\fP
Started
Copy started ...
Tape to Disk Copy Complete
.sp
mdfex 2.4> \f3t\fP
Tape to Disk Copy
Tape file (2)? \f33<return>\fP	
Unit (0) = \f3<return>\fP
File system (a)? \f3<return>\fP
Type 'go<return>' to begin \f3go<return>\fP
Started
Copy started ...
Tape to Disk Copy Complete
.sp
mdfex 2.4> \f3q\fP
--confirm quit with `y': \f3y\fP
iris> \f3b\fP
.fi
.PP
The next example restores the root file system on 
an IRIS 2400T or 3020.  For an IRIS 2500T, substitute
\f3ipfex\fP for \f3mdfex\fP.  For an IRIS 3030, substitute
\f3sifex\fP for \f3mdfex\fP.
.IP
.nf
iris> \f3b mt0:mdfex <return>\fP	
mdfex 2.4> \f3t\fP
Tape to Disk Copy
Tape file (2)? \f3<return>\fP	
Unit (0) = \f3<return>\fP
File system (a)? \f3<return>\fP	
Type 'go<return>' to begin \f3go<return>\fP
Started
Copy started ...
Tape to Disk Copy Complete
.sp
mdfex 2.4> \f3q\fP
--confirm quit with `y': \f3y\fP
iris> \f3b\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
cpio(1), dd(1), mkfs(1M), mt(1).
