'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MKNETPR 1M
.SH NAME
mknetpr \- provide access to a remote printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
/usr/spool/lp/etc/util/mknetpr printer host netprinter
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mknetpr
creates a filter program that accesses a real printer over the network and
registers the ``printer'' with the \s-1LP\s0 system.
A log file is also created.
.IR printer
is the name you give the printer (see
.I lpadmin (1M)).
.I host
is the name of an IRIS that has a real printer attached to it.
.I netprinter
is the name of the real printer on the remote machine.
If the remote printer is a LaserWriter and you want to print
.I troff (1)
files, you need to duplicate much of the software that is on the host
machine in order to generate a PostScript file that can be transmitted
to the remote printer.
Many of the filters
that prepare data for the LaserWriter default their output to a printer
or class of printers called PostScript.  Therefore, it is a good idea
to use the name PostScript for the printer.  You can override such action
using the ``destination'' switch in the various programs.
.PP
After running this program, you might consider making this printer the
default printer using
.IR lpadmin (1M) .
Run this program as superuser from directory
.IR /usr/spool/lp/etc/util .
.PP
This program installs a printer filter program that appears to
the \s-1LP\s0 system as
a real printer filter.  The data passed to the filter is transmitted to
the host machine, then submitted to the remote printer's queue using lp.
The filter uses TCP/IP or XNS protocols, depending on what sort of kernel
is running.
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/lp/etc/log/\f2printer\f1-log
.br
/usr/spool/lp/interface/\f2printer\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
accept(1M),
addclient(1M),
enable(1),
lp(1),
lpadmin(1M),
lpsched(1M),
lpshut(1M),
lpstat(1),
rmprinter(1M).
