'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MOUNT 1M
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount and dismount filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mount
[
.B \-p
]
.br
.B /etc/mount
.BR \-a [ fv ]
[ 
.B \-t
.I type 
]
.br
.B /etc/mount
[
.B \-frv
]
[
.BR \-t " type"
]
[
.BR \-o " options"
] fsname dir
.br
.B /etc/mount
[
.B \-vf
] fsname | dir
.LP
.B /etc/umount
[
.BR \-h " host"
]
[
.B \-frv
]
.br
.B /etc/umount
.BR \-a [ v ]
.br
.B /etc/umount
[ 
.B \-v
]
.br
.B /etc/umount
[
.BR \-t " type"
]
.IR "" [ fsname " | " dir "]  .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mount
announces to the system that a filesystem
.I fsname
is to be attached to the file tree at the directory
.IR dir .
The directory
.I dir
must already exist.
It becomes the name of the newly mounted root.  The contents of
.I dir
are hidden until the filesystem is unmounted.
If
.I fsname
is of the form host:path the filesystem type is assumed to be
.IR nfs (7).
.LP
.I Umount
announces to the system that the filesystem 
.I fsname
previously mounted on directory
.I dir
should be removed.  Either the filesystem name or the mounted-on
directory may be used.
.LP
.I mount
and
.I umount
maintain a table of mounted filesystems in
.B /etc/mtab,
described in
.IR mtab (4).
If invoked without an argument,
.I mount
displays the table.  If invoked with only one of
.I fsname
or
.I dir
mount searches the file
.B /etc/fstab
(see 
.IR mntent (4))
for an entry whose
.I dir
or
.I fsname
field matches the given argument.
For example, if this line is in 
.BR /etc/fstab :
.PP
.RS
/dev/si0f  /usr  efs  rw,raw=/dev/rsi0f  0  0
.RE
.PP
then the commands
.B "mount /usr"
and
.B "mount /dev/si0f"
are shorthand for
.B "mount /dev/si0f /usr"
.LP
.\"Physically write-protected and magnetic tape file systems must
.\"be mounted read-only, or errrors will occur when access times
.\"are updated \(em whether or not any explicit write is
.\"attempted.
.\"More than one remote file system can be mounted on a
.\"directory.  Successive umounts reveal previously mounted file
.\"systems.
.SH "MOUNT OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-p
Print the list of mounted filesystems in a format suitable for use in 
.BR /etc/fstab .
.TP
.B \-a
Attempt to mount all the filesystems described in
.B /etc/fstab.
(In this case,
.I fsname
and
.I dir
are taken from
.BR /etc/fstab. )
If a type is specified all of the filesystems in
.B /etc/fstab
with that type is mounted.
Filesystems are not necessarily mounted in the order 
listed in
.BR /etc/fstab .
.TP
.B \-f
Fake a new
.B /etc/mtab
entry, but do not actually mount any filesystems.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose \(em
.I mount
displays a message indicating the filesystem being mounted.
.TP
.B \-t
The next argument is the filesystem type.
The accepted types are: 
.BR efs ,
.BR bell , 
and 
.BR nfs ;
see
.IR mntent (4)
for a description of these filesystem types.
.TP
.B \-r
Mount the specified filesystem read-only.  This is a shorthand for:
.RS
.IP
\f3mount \-o ro\f1 \f2fsname dir\f1
.RE
.IP
Physically write-protected and magnetic tape filesystems must be mounted
read-only, or errors occur when access times are updated,
whether or not any explicit write is attempted.
.TP
.B \-o
'\" This description should match that in mntent(4)
Specify 
.I options,
a list of comma-separated words from the list below.
Some 
.I options 
are valid for all filesystem types, while others apply
to a specific type only.
.I options 
valid for all file system types are:
.RS
.RS
.IP \f3rw\f1 \w'\f3raw=\f2path\f1\ \ \ 'u
read/write (default).
.IP \f3ro\f1
read-only.
.IP \f3suid\f1
set-uid execution allowed (default, can not be disabled).
.\".IP \f3nosuid\f1
.\"set-uid execution not allowed (not supported).
.RE
.PP
.I options
specific to 
.B efs
and
.B bell
file systems are:
.RS
.IP \f3fsck\f1 \w'\f3raw=\f2path\f1\ \ \ 'u
.IR fsck (1M)
invoked with no filesystem arguments should check this filesystem (default).
.IP \f3nofsck\f1
.I fsck
should not check this filesystem by default.
.IP \f3raw=\f2path\f1
the filesystem's raw device interface pathname.
.RE
.PP
.I options
specific to 
.B nfs
file systems are:
.RS
.IP \f3bg\f1 \w'\f3raw=\f2path\f1\ \ \ 'u
if the first mount attempt fails, retry in the background.
.IP \f3fg\f1
retry in the foreground.
.IP \f3retry=\f2n\f1
set number of mount failure retries to 
.I n.
.IP \f3rsize=\f2n\f1
set read buffer size to 
.I n 
bytes.
.IP \f3wsize=\f2n\f1
set write buffer size to 
.I 
n bytes.
.IP \f3timeo=\f2n\f1
set NFS timeout to 
.I n 
tenths of a second.
.IP \f3retrans=\f2n\f1
set number of NFS retransmissions to 
.I n.
.IP \f3port=\f2n\f1
set server IP port number to 
.I n.
.IP \f3soft\f1
return error if server doesn't respond.
.IP \f3hard\f1
retry request until server responds.
.RE
.PP
The
.B bg
option causes 
.I mount
to run in the background if the server's
.IR mountd (1M)
does not respond.  
.I mount 
attempts each request
.BI retry= n
times before giving up.  
If
.B bg 
is specified and 
.B retry 
is not specified, it
defaults to 10000.
Once the filesystem is mounted,
each 
.SM NFS 
request made in the kernel waits
.BI timeo= n
tenths of a second for a response.  If no response arrives, the
time-out is multiplied by 2 
and the request is retransmitted.  When
.BI retrans= n
retransmissions have been sent with no reply a
.B soft
mounted filesystem returns an error on the request and a
.B hard
mounted filesystem retries the request.
Filesystems that are mounted 
.B rw
(read/write)
should use the 
.B hard
option.
The number of bytes in a read or write request can be set with the
.B rsize
and
.B wsize
options.
The default options are:
.PP
.RS
\f3fg,hard,retry=0,timeo=7,retrans=4,port=\f2NFS_PORT\f1
.RE
.PP
with defaults for 
.I rsize 
and 
.I wsize 
set by the kernel.
.RE
.SH "UMOUNT OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Unmount all filesystems listed in
.I /etc/mtab
that are remote-mounted from 
.I host.
.TP
.B \-a
Attempt to unmount all the filesystems currently mounted (listed
in
.BR /etc/mtab ).
In this case,
.I fsname
is taken from
.I /etc/mtab.
.TP
.B \-t
Unmounts all filesystems of a given filesystem type.
The accepted types are: 
.BR efs ,
.BR bell , 
and 
.BR nfs .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose \(em
.I umount
displays a message indicating the filesystem being unmounted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ta \w'mount \-o soft server:/usr/src /usr/src 'u
mount /dev/si0f /usr            	mount a local disk
mount \-at efs                  	mount all EFS filesystems
mount \-t nfs serv:/usr/src /usr/src	mount remote filesystem
mount serv:/usr/src /usr/src    	same as above
mount \-o soft serv:/usr/src /usr/src	same as above but soft mount
mount \-p > /etc/fstab          	save current mount state
.fi
.SH FILES
.DT
/etc/fstab	filesystem table
.br
/etc/mtab	mount table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mountd(1M), nfsd(1M), nfsmount(2), mntent(4).
.SH BUGS
Mounting filesystems full of garbage crashes the system.
