'\"macro stdmacro
.ds P UNIX
.TH RUNACCT 1M
.SH NAME
runacct \- run daily accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/runacct
[\^mmdd [\^state\^]\^]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Runacct\^
is the main daily accounting shell procedure.
It is normally initiated via
.IR cron (1M).
.I Runacct\^
processes connect, fee, disk, and process accounting files.
It also prepares summary files for
.I prdaily\^
or billing purposes.
.PP
.I Runacct\^
takes care not to damage active accounting files or summary
files in the event of errors.
It records its progress by writing descriptive diagnostic
messages into
.BR active .
When an error is detected, a message is written to
.BR /dev/console ,
mail (see \f2mail\fP(1)) is sent to
.BR root \ and \ adm ,
and \f2runacct\fP terminates.
.I Runacct\^
uses a series of lock files to protect against re-invocation.
The files
.B lock
and
.B lock1
are used to prevent simultaneous invocation, and
.B lastdate
is used to prevent more than one invocation per day.
.PP
.I Runacct\^
breaks its processing into separate, restartable
.I states\^
using
.B statefile
to remember the last
.I state\^
completed.
It accomplishes this by writing the
.I state\^
name into
.BR statefile .
.I Runacct\^
then looks in
.B statefile
to see what it has done and to determine what to process next.
.I States\^
are executed in the following order:
.RS .3i
.TP "\w'\s-1MERGETACCT\s0\ \ 'u"
.SM
.B SETUP
Move active accounting files into working files.
.TP
.SM
.B WTMPFIX
Verify integrity of
.B wtmp
file, correcting date changes if necessary.
.TP
.SM
.B CONNECT1
Produce connect session records in
.B ctmp.h
format.
.TP
.SM
.B CONNECT2
Convert
.B ctmp.h
records into
.B tacct.h
format.
.TP
.SM
.B PROCESS
Convert process accounting records into
.B tacct.h
format.
.TP
.SM
.B MERGE
Merge the connect and process accounting records.
.TP
.SM
.B FEES
Convert output of
.I chargefee\^
into
.B tacct.h
format and merge with connect and process accounting records.
.TP
.SM
.B DISK
Merge disk accounting records with connect, process, and fee accounting
records.
.TP
.SM
.B MERGETACCT
Merge the daily total accounting records in
.B daytacct
with the summary total accounting records in
.BR /usr/adm/acct/sum/tacct .
.TP
.SM
.B CMS
Produce command summaries.
.TP
.SM
.B USEREXIT
Any installation-dependent accounting programs can be
included here.
.TP
.SM
.B CLEANUP
Cleanup temporary files and exit.
.RE
.PP
To restart
.I runacct\^
after a failure, first check the
.B active
file for diagnostics, then fix up any corrupted data files
such as
.BR pacct \ or \ wtmp .
The
.B lock
files and
.B lastdate
file must be removed before
.I runacct\^
can be restarted.
The argument
.I mmdd\^
is necessary if \f2runacct\fP is being restarted,
and
specifies the month and day for which
.I runacct\^
will rerun the accounting.
Entry point for processing is based on the contents of
.BR statefile ;
to override this,
include the desired
.I state\^
on the command line to designate where processing
should begin.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
nohup runacct 2> /usr/adm/acct/nite/fd2log &
.PP
starts \f2runacct\fP.
.IP
nohup runacct 0601 2>> /usr/adm/acct/nite/fd2log &
.PP
restarts \f2runacct\fP.
.IP
nohup runacct 0601 \s-1MERGE\s0 2>> /usr/adm/acct/nite/fd2log &
.PP
restarts \f2runacct\fP at a specific \f2state\fP.
.SH FILES
/etc/wtmp
.br
/usr/adm/pacct\f2\(**\fP
.br
/usr/src/cmd/acct/tacct.h
.br
/usr/src/cmd/acct/ctmp.h
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/active
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/daytacct
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/lock
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/lock1
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/lastdate
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/statefile
.br
/usr/adm/acct/nite/ptacct\f2\(**\fP.\f2mmdd\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
acct(1M),
acctcms(1M),
acctcom(1),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctprc(1M),
acctsh(1M),
cron(1M),
fwtmp(1M),
acct(2),
acct(4),
utmp(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The accounting system will start complaining with
.B \(**\(**\(**\s-1RECOMPILE\s+1 pnpsplit
.SM
.B WITH NEW HOLIDAYS\*S\(**\(**\(**
after the last holiday of the year.
See "The \s-1UNIX\s+1 Accounting System" 
for more on how to correct this condition.
Other diagnostics are placed in various error
and log files.
.SH BUGS
Normally it is not a good idea to restart
.I runacct\^
in the
.SM
.B SETUP
.IR state .
Run
.SM
.B SETUP
manually and restart via:
.PP
.RS 5
.B runacct
.I mmdd\^
.SM
.B WTMPFIX
.RE
.PP
If
.I runacct\^
failed in the
.SM
.B PROCESS
.IR state,
remove the last
.B ptacct
file because it will not be complete.
.\"	@(#)runacct.1m	5.1 of 10/17/83
