'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SGILABEL 1M
.SH NAME
sgilabel \- print or update the SGI disk drive label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgilabel
disk ...
.br
.B sgilabel
[
.B \-b
bootfs ] [
.B \-n
name ] [
.B \-p
fs:base,size ] 
.br
	 [
.B \-r
rootfs ] [
.B \-s
serial ] [
.B \-S
swapfs ]
disk
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sgilabel
has two uses:
it either updates the disk label on one drive or
prints zero or more disk labels or partition sizes.
A disk may be given as a file system device pathname (e.g.,
.I /dev/md0a\^
),
a pathname suffix (\c
.I md0a\^
),
or a disk drive name (\c
.I md0\^
).
.PP
If
.I disk
denotes a drive 
(e.g.,
.I md0\^
,
.I ip1\^
),
.I sgilabel
will print out the whole drive label.
This information includes the drive name, serial number,
type of drive and controller, size (cylinders/heads/sectors),
and the sizes of each file system on the drive.
.PP
If
.I disk
denotes a file system
(e.g.,
.I md0a\^
,
.I /dev/ip1d\^
),
.I sgilabel
will print out the size of the file system partition
and the size of a cylinder (both in 512 byte blocks).
.PP
If
.B \-n
.I name
is given,
the drive name in the label is set to
.IR name .
Using the
.B \-p
option, a partition (file system) may be created on a disk.  The partition
parameters are:
.TP
.I fs
a file system specification either of the form
.B a\^
through
.B h\^
or
.B 0\^
through
.B 7\^ ;
the letters correspond to the final character in file system device names,
while the numbers correspond to minor devices
.TP
.I base
the partition base in sectors
.TP
.I size
the partition length in sectors
.PP
More than one
.B \-p
option may be given.
If
.B \-r
.I rootfs
is given, the disk label root file system field is set to
.IR rootfs ;
.I rootfs
is specified as with the
.B \-p
option.
Likewise,
.B \-b
and
.B \-S
may be used to set the disk label boot and swap file system fields,
respectively.
If
.B \-s
.I serial
is given,
the drive serial number in the label is set to
.IR serial .
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/md*h\ \ 'u
/dev/md*h	The \f2h\fP partition accesses the label
.br
/dev/ip*h	The \f2h\fP partition accesses the label
.br
/dev/si*h	The \f2h\fP partition accesses the label
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/a_man/man1/RCS/sgilabel.1m,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:21:47 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	sgilabel.1m,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:21:47  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.9  86/03/25  11:18:44  lori
.\" brendan
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.8  86/03/06  14:08:30  lori
.\" cosmetic change for v2.0 UPM
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7  86/02/26  12:16:43  lori
.\" v2.0 UPM for 2.4/3.4 release
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  85/08/07  15:20:35  robinf
.\" Cosmetic changes
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  85/07/12  17:15:23  robinf
.\" Update for IRIS 3400
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  85/05/02  18:21:04  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  84/12/16  08:08:43  bob
.\" Initial revision
.\"
