'\"macro stdmacro
.TH YPINIT 1M
.SH NAME
ypinit \- build and install yellow pages database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/ypinit \-m
.br
.B /usr/etc/ypinit \-s
master_name
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ypinit
sets up a yellow pages database on a YP server.
It can be used to set up a master or a slave server.
You must be the superuser to run it.
It asks a few, self-explanatory  questions, 
and reports success or failure to the terminal.
.LP
It sets up a master server
using the simple model in which that server
is master to all maps in the data base.
This is the way to bootstrap the YP system;
later if you want you can change the association of maps to masters.
All databases are built from scratch,
either from information available to the program at runtime,
or from the ASCII data base files in
.IR /etc .
These files are listed below under
.B FILES .
All such files should be in their "traditional" form,
rather than the abbreviated form used on client machines.
.LP
A YP database on a slave server is set up by copying
an existing database from a running server.  The
.I master_name
argument should be the hostname of YP server
(either the master server for all the maps,
or a server on which the data base is up-to-date and stable).
.LP
Refer to \f2ypfiles\f1(4) and \f2ypserv\f1(1M) for an overview of the yellow
pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Indicates that the local host is to be the YP master.
.TP
.B \-s
Set up a slave database.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/passwd
/etc/group
/etc/hosts
/etc/networks
/etc/services
/etc/protocols
/etc/netgroup
/etc/ethers
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
makedbm(1M), ypfiles(4), yppush(1M), ypxfr(1M), ypmake(1M), ypserv(1M).
