'\"macro stdmacro
.TH YPSET 1M
.SH NAME
ypset \- point ypbind at a particular server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypset
[
.BR \-V1\| | \|\-V2
] 
[ \f3\-h \f1host ]
[ \f3\-d \f1domain ] server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ypset 
tells 
.I ypbind 
to get YP services for the specified
.I domain 
from the 
.I ypserv 
process running on 
.IR server .
If 
.I server
is down, or isn't running 
.IR ypserv , 
this is not discovered until a YP client process tries to 
get a binding for the domain.  At this point, the binding set by
.I ypset
will be tested by 
.IR ypbind .  
If 
the binding is invalid, 
.I ypbind
will attempt to rebind for the same domain.
.LP
.I ypset 
is useful for binding a client node which is not on a broadcast net,
or is on a broadcast net which isn't running a YP server host.  
It also is useful for debugging YP client applications, for instance 
where a YP map only exists at a single YP server host.  
.LP
In cases where several hosts on the local net are supplying YP services, it
is possible for 
.I ypbind 
to rebind to another host even while you attempt to
find out if the 
.I ypset 
operation succeeded.  That is, you can type
"ypset host1", and then "ypwhich", which replies: "host2", which
can be confusing.  This is a function of the YP subsystem's attempt to
load-balance among the available YP servers, and occurs when
.I host1
does not respond to 
.I ypbind 
because it is not running 
.I ypserv 
(or is overloaded), and
.IR host2 ,
running
.IR ypserv ,
gets the binding.
.LP
.I server
indicates the YP server to bind to, and
can be specified
as a name or an IP address.  If specified as a name,
.I ypset 
will attempt to use YP services to resolve the name to an IP address.  
This will work only if
the node has a current valid binding for the domain in question.  
In most cases,
.I server
should be specified as an IP address.
.LP
Refer to \f2ypfiles\f1(4) and \f2ypserv\f1(1M) for an overview of the yellow
pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\f3\-V1\f1" .8i
Bind
.I server
for the (old) v.1 YP protocol.
.IP "\f3\-V2\f1"
Bind
.I server
for the (current) v.2 YP protocol.  
.IP
If no version is supplied, 
.IR ypset ,
first attempts to set the domain for the (current) v.2 protocol.
If this attempt fails, 
.IR ypset ,
then attempts to set the domain for the (old) v.1 protocol.
.IP "\f3\-h \f2host\f1"
Set ypbind's binding on 
.IR host ,
instead of locally.  
.I host
can be specified as a name or as an IP address.  
.IP "\f3\-d \f2domain\f1"
Use
.I domain ,
instead of the default domain.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypwhich(1), ypserv(1M), ypfiles(4)
