'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)ypxfr.8 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; 
.TH YPXFR 1M
.SH NAME
ypxfr \- transfer a YP map from some YP server to here
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypxfr
[
.B \-f
] 
[ \f3\-h\f1 host ]
[ \f3\-d\f1 domain ]
[
.B \-c
] 
[ \f3\-C\f1
tid prog ipadd port
]
mapname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ypxfr 
moves a YP map to the local host by making use of normal YP services.
It creates a temporary map in the directory 
.BI /usr/etc/yp/ domain
(which must already exist),
fills it by enumerating the map's entries, fetches the
map parameters (master and order number) and loads them.
It then deletes any old versions of the map and moves the 
temporary map to the real mapname.
.LP
If 
.I ypxfr 
is run interactively, it writes its output to the terminal.
However, if it's invoked without a controlling terminal, and if the
log file 
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypxfr.log
exists, it will append all its output to that file.  Since 
.I ypxfr 
is most often run from 
.BR /usr/lib/crontab ,
or by
.IR ypserv ,
you can use the log file to retain a record of what was attempted, 
and what the results were.
.LP
For consistency between servers,
.I ypxfr 
should be run periodically for every map in the YP data base. 
Different maps change at different
rates:  the
.I services.byname
map may not change for months at a time, for instance, and may 
therefore be checked only once a day in the wee hours.  You may know 
that
.I mail.aliases
or
.I hosts.byname
changes several times per day.  In such a case, you may want to
check hourly for updates.   A
.I crontab 
entry can be used to perform periodic updates automatically (see
.IR cron (1M)).  
Rather than having a separate
.I crontab
entry for each map, you can group comands to update several maps 
in a shell script.  Examples are in 
.IR /usr/etc/yp :
.IR ypxfr_1pd , 
(transfer once per day)
.IR ypxfr_2pd , 
(transfer twice per day)
and
.I ypxfr_1ph 
(transfer once per hour).
They can serve as reasonable first cuts.
.LP
Refer to \f2ypfiles\f1(4) and \f2ypserv\f1(1M) for an overview of the yellow
pages.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\f3\-f\f1" 1i
Force the transfer to occur even if the version at the master is not 
more recent than the local version.
.IP "\f3\-c\f1" 1i
Don't send a "Clear current map" request to the local 
.I ypserv 
process.  Use this flag if 
.I ypserv 
is not running locally at the time you are running
.IR ypxfr .  
Otherwise,
.I ypxfr 
will complain that it can't talk to the local
.IR ypserv , 
and the transfer will fail.
.IP "\f3\-h \f2host\f1"
Get the map from
.I host ,
regardless of what the map says the master is.  If 
.I host 
is not specified,
.I ypxfr 
will ask the YP service for the name of the master, and try to get the 
map from there.
.I host
may be a name or an internet address in the form 
.I "a.b.c.d" .
.IP "\f3\-d \f2domain\f1"
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.IP "\f3\-C \f2tid prog ipadd port\f1"
This option is 
.B only 
for use by
.IR ypserv .
When  
.I ypserv
invokes 
.IR ypxfr , 
it specifies that 
.I ypxfr
should call back a
.I yppush
process at the host with IP address
.IR ipaddr ,
registered as program number
.IR prog ,
listening on port
.IR port ,
and waiting for a response to transaction
.IR tid .
.SH FILES
/usr/etc/yp/ypxfr.log
.br
/usr/etc/yp/ypxfr_1pd
.br
/usr/etc/yp/ypxfr_2pd
.br
/usr/etc/yp/ypxfr_1ph
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(4), ypserv(1M), yppush(1M).
