'\"macro stdmacro
.TH COLORDEMOS 1D
.SH NAME
showmap, cedit, interp \- color map demonstration programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.in
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/bin/showmap
.PP
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/bin/cedit
.PP
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/bin/interp
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These three color tools display the current color map, edit single colors,
and make smooth color ranges respectively.
They operate 
.B only 
under the control of
.IR mex ,
the window manager.
Source files for all three programs are in
.IR /usr/people/gifts .
.PP
.I Showmap
displays the current color map as a square array of color tiles.
To determine the size of the map, 
.I showmap
calls
.IR getplanes .
Depending on the number of available bitplanes returned by
.IR getplanes ,
.I showmap
then selects a display of 64, 256, or 1024 entries.
The program is not interactive.
Color 0 is at the lower left corner of the display and
the highest color index is at the
upper right.
.PP
.I Cedit
displays three color sliders and a test patch.
To alter any displayed color, select the
.IR cedit 
window.
Move the cursor to the color and press and release the left
mouse button.
The selected color will be displayed in the test patch.
The color sliders will be set to the relative intensities of red, green,
and blue that comprise the color.
To alter the color, move the sliders with the mouse while holding down the
right mouse button.
.PP
.I Interp
displays two color chips and a Gouraud-shaded polygon showing the shaderange 
between them.
To make a shaderange, start windows for 
.IR showmap ,
.IR cedit ,
and
.IR interp .
Select the color at the lower (usually darker) end of the shaderange
and use
.I cedit
to set it to the desired value.
Select the color at the top of the shaderange and edit it as well.
.PP
Now select the 
.I interp 
window.
Move the cursor to the lower color (usually on
.IR showmap )
and release the left mouse button.
Move the cursor to the high color and repeat.
Move the cursor to
.I interp
and press and release the middle mouse button.
.PP
The resultant color array will be gamma-corrected using the
floating-point constant in
.IR ~/.gamma .
If no such file exists, the gamma constant is 1.0.
