'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SUPERBREAK 1D
.SH NAME
superbreak \-  3-D version of the game "breakout" 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/superbreak [\f3h\f1] [\f3\-r\f2 bricks\f1]
[\f3\-l \f2layers\f1] [\f3\-c \f2chances\f1] [\f3\-p \f2paddlesize\f1]
[\f3\-b \f2ballsize\f1] [\f3\-f \f2friction\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Try to destroy as many bricks as possible 
while keeping the ball 
from reaching the bottom of the playing area.
.SH Playing the Game
.PP
Control the paddle by moving the mouse.
To release a ball, press the left mouse button.
Once the ball is in play, keep it from reaching
the bottom of the playing area by hitting it with the paddle.
Use the ball and paddle to hit as many bricks as possible.
.PP
To display the menu of player
options, press the right
mouse button.  Freeze ball motion by holding
down the middle mouse button.
.PP
After five balls have been lost, the game is reset and all 
options except the number of viewing windows are returned to their
initial values.
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
\f3h\f1
prints a usage help statement
.TP 8
\f3\-r\f1
sets the number of bricks per side.  \f2bricks\f1 is an integer value
between 1 and 7.  The default value of \f2bricks\f1 is 5.
.TP 8
\f3\-l\f1
sets the number of brick layers.  \f2layers\f1 is an integer value
between 1 and 4.  The default value of \f2layers\f1 is 4. 
.TP 8
\f3\-c\f1
sets the number of balls a player gets.  \f2chances\f1 is an integer
value between 1 and 10.  The default value of \f2chances\f1 is 5.
.TP 8
\f3\-p\f1
sets the size of the paddle.  \f2paddlesize\f1 is an integer value between 1
and 100.  The default value for \f2paddlesize\f1 is 20.
.TP 8
\f3\-b\f1 
sets the ball size.  \f2ballsize\f1 is an integer value between 1 and
100.  The default value for \f2ballsize\f1 is 10.
.TP 8
\f3\-f\f1
sets the friction of the paddle.  \f2friction\f1 can be any postive
integer.  The default value of \f2friction\f1 is 20.
.SH "MENU OPTIONS"
.PP
Press the right mouse button for the pop-up menu containing player options.
.PP
.I stay still
- maintains the current viewing position, regardless of viewing
option. 
With this option
the player is free to move the paddle without altering the
current viewing position. 
This is most helpful when using the 
.I follow mouse
option. 
The
.I stay still
option can also be used with other viewing options to create interesting
effects.
.PP
.I follow mouse
- allows the player to circle around the playing area using
the mouse. Moving the mouse left or right rotates the viewing angle
to the left or right.
Similarly, moving the mouse up or down rotates the viewing angle up or down.
.PP
.I follow paddle
- displays the playing area from the paddle's
perspective. 
Whenever the playing field is viewed from behind the paddle, the
paddle appears transparent. 
.PP
.I follow ball
- displays the playing area from the ball's
perspective. 
Use this option
in conjunction with the
.I auto on
option described below.
.PP
.I three views/one view
- toggles between one view in one window (the
default), and three views in three separate windows. When in
.I three views
mode the main window will show the
.I follow mouse
view, the second window will show the
.I follow paddle
view, and the third window will show the
.I follow ball
view. The player may freely switch between these three views.
Because of the added computation involved, using the \f2three views\f1 option
will 
slow down the game on the screen.
.PP
.I auto off/auto on
- toggles between computer controlled mode (the default),
and player controlled mode.  In automatic mode the computer automatically
keeps the paddle directly under the ball, 
freeing the user to demostrate the
various display modes, features, and views while keeping the ball in play.
Automatic mode is almost indispensible when using the
.I follow ball
option.
.PP
.I clear bricks/opaque bricks
- toggles between opaque bricks (the default), and transparent
bricks. Transparent bricks allow the player to see the ball while
it is moving behind them. 
.PP
.I reset
- this option resets the game.
.PP
.I exit
- this option exits the game. The player must confirm the intention
to exit before the game is over. The game may also be left at
any time, without confirmation, by hitting the escape key.
.SH NOTE
.PP
This game will run only in the window manager.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Eric Brechner - 07/29/86
