'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SURFCAR 1D
.SH NAME
surfcar, surfegg \- surface editor and rendering driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/surfcar  
.br
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/surfegg
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I surfcar and
.I surfegg
are interactive bicubic patch editors.
It allows the user to manipulate the locations and numbers of basis points
defining a bicubic B-spline surface. 
The user can also establish planes of symmetry, manipulate the splined object
for study from various points of view, and send the basis points to a second
program that draws smooth-shaded, z-buffered objects.
.PP
The default data base specifies a surface shape more or less resembling an
automobile or egg carton.
.PP
The simplest use of the program allows you to edit the displayed surface by
manipulating its basis points.
The program takes a while to start up.
It displays a wait cursor until it does.
.PP
The program uses screen buttons and cursor glyphs.
In the initial state,  the cursor is shaped like the mouse.
LEFTMOUSE gives a stylized arrow in the 'X' direction, MIDDLEMOUSE
one in 'Y', and RIGHTMOUSE one in 'Z'.
The mouse can be used to pick a basis point, select an axis, and move the
point along that axis.
Any basis point can be picked either at its ``real'' location in space
or at its projection on any of the index surfaces.
.PP
The rightmost five screen buttons help edit the surface.
The leftmost two help view it.
.PP
The leftmost screen window shows three mutually perpendicular
axes.
If an axis is selected by the cursor, RIGHTMOUSE will rotate the surface about
that axis.
The index planes will stay still while the surface rotates ninety degrees
around the axis selected.
.PP
The stylishly bloodshot eye allows rotation of the object and the index
planes.
LEFTMOUSE allows rotation of the surface alone.
RIGHTMOUSE returns it to its original spot.
RIGHTMOUSE allows rotation of the object and axes.
Pressing  
RIGHTMOUSE again gets out of the rotate mode and leaves the display at its new
position.
LEFTMOUSE, while the object is in rotate mode, transmits the current
surface to the surface rendering demonstration program, 
.IR zshadecar (1D).
.PP
Use the five screen buttons on the lower right to make more modifications
to the surface.
Each of the three rightmost buttons 
(the cubes with slices down the middle) selects
a plane of symmetry 
across the surface.
Only two planes of symmetry can be relevant for any orientation of the object.
Attempts to select the impossible plane will not be accepted and will blink
an error cursor.
The remaining two buttons double the number of basis points in the image
along the axes indicated.
More points allow a more complicated surface.
.SH "WINDOW MANAGER"
.PP
Versions for use with and without the window manager are supplied.
The version with the window manager is the only one that communicates
directly
with
.IR zshadecar (1D).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
zshadecar(1D)
.SH AUTHOR
Henry Moreton

