'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ZSHADECAR 1D
.SH NAME
zshadecar, zshadeabstract, zshadeegg, zshadejet \- shading and z-buffering demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/zshadecar
.br
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/zshadeabstract
.br
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/zshadeegg
.br
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/zshadejet
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These programs demonstrate advanced graphics features of the  
IRIS:  
cubic patches, depth cuing, z-buffering and Gouraud shading.  The objects
are formed of bi-cubic patches.
.PP
The first image to appear is a grey scale chart, representing the gamma
corrected color map.  
The next image is of lines connecting the basis points of the object.
From these basis points a cubic patch is derived, 
first shown as an array of points.
.PP
.sp
Menu selections for invoking the various display modes are made by pressing one
of the following keys:
.ta \w'Key\ \ \ 'u
.in +.5i
.nf
.na
Key	Function
d	turn on depth cuing
p	draw point display
s	draw as splines
w	original wireframe
z	z-buffer and Gouraud shaded version
.in -.5i
.PP
To rotate the image, move the mouse in the X direction only. The mouse
buttons select the axis of rotation:

	LEFT mouse button rotates the car in X
	MIDDLE mouse button rotates the car in Y
	RIGHT mouse button rotates the car in Z
.fi
.ad
.PP
The usual way to operate the 
program
is to rotate the wire frame or point
surface interactively to the desired position and then smooth shade and
z-buffer it. 
.PP
.sp 2
.SH HARDWARE CONFIGURATION
A minimum configuration of 32 bitplanes, 1.5 Megabytes of memory, and
Z-clipping is required.
.SH SEE ALSO
surfcar(1D)
.SH AUTHOR
Henry Moreton
