.TH PSCATMAP 8 "12 Nov 1985" "Adobe Systems"
.ds PS P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.SH NAME
pscatmap \- build ptroff width tables P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 fonts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B XPSLIBDIRX/pscatmap
.I mapfile
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I pscatmap
builds correspondence tables and width tables so that
documents produced with original
.RI [ o ] troff (1)
can be translated into \*(PS programs by
.IR pscat .
.I pscatmap 
parses a human-readable mapping table and generates five output files \-
a 
.IR family .ct
file, containing the character correspondence table for 
.IR pscat , 
and
four 
.I ft?? 
files, to be used as 
.I troff
width tables.  On 4.2bsd systems, these files are C programs 
(ft\fIxx\fP.c) to be compiled into widths tables.
On System V systems, these files are the binary width tables themselves.
.PP
The user must create a 
.IR family .head
file containing ``.fp'' commands to preload appropriate fonts for 
.RI [ o ] troff .
.PP
The structure of the 
.I .map
files is relatively easy to understand.  If you want to create your own,
the best thing to do is use an existing one as a template.  Lines that
begin with ``%'' are comments.  Blank (empty) lines are ignored.
Lines beginning with  ``@'' are command lines. The following command 
lines are understood:
.TP 1.3i
.BI @FAMILYNAME " family"
.br
where 
.I family
is a single token.  This specifies the base name for the generated .ct file.
.TP
.BI @FACENAMES " rf if bf sf"
.br
where \fIrf, if, bf,\fR and
.I sf,
are the two-letter 
.I troff
face codes for the Roman (font 1), Italic (font 2), Bold (font 3)
and Symbol (font 4) fonts, respectively.  
.I pscatmap 
will generate files with the names:
ft\fIrf\fP[.c], ft\fIif\fP[.c], ft\fIbf\fP[.c], ft\fIsf\fP[.c].
.TP
.B @BEGINFONTS
starts the section which identifies which \*(PS fonts
will be a part of this mapping and defines short names for these
fonts (to be used in a later section of the map file).
@BEGINFONTS is followed by a sequence of lines of the form:
.RS
\fBshortname\fP=\fIFont-Name\fP
.RE
.TP
.B @ENDFONTS
terminates this section.
.TP
.B @BEGINMAP
begins the real correspondence description.
What follows are a sequence of lines, each line describing
a character action mapping.  Each line represents one character.
A line contains:
the troff character code, the troff face code (R, I, B, or S),
the C/A/T character code, the character width, 
the character action, x and y offsets for position adjustments,
the \*(PS font and \*(PS character code to map to, and a short
text description of the font.
.sp
The best way to understand all this is to look at the map
files already in the library and use them as examples.  They have
copious comments to help explain what they do.
.TP 
.B @ENDMAP
delimits the end of this section.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
PSLIBDIR
path name of a directory to use instead of
XPSLIBDIRX for AFM files.
.SH FILES
.TP 2i
XPSLIBDIRX/*.afm
font metrics files.
.TP
\fIfamily\fP.map
input mapping file.
.TP
\fIfamily\fP.ct
generated correspondence table.
.TP
ft\fIxx\fP[.c]
generated width files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pscat(1), ptroff(1).
.br
4.2bsd: troff(1).
.br
System V: otroff(1), \fIDocumenter's Workbench\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Lots, should be self explanatory.
.SH BUGS
Mounting anything but a font named `S' in position 4 will cause
.I troff
to do unexpected things.   
.I troff
really expects the symbol font to me named `S'.
Thus every font family defined
should have identical symbol faces.  For this reason, the text 
and symbol descriptions of the map files have been segmented.
You can specify some other face name in the 
.B @FACENAMES 
line for the fourth font, but don't ``.fp'' it in troff.
.SH NOTES
\*(PS is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.br
Documenter's Workbench is a trademark of AT&T Technologies.
