.TH PSROFF 1 "12 Nov 1985" "Adobe Systems"
\" RCSID: $Header: /d2/3.7/src/usr.bin/print/trscript/man/RCS/psroff.1p,v 1.1 89/03/27 18:20:15 root Exp $
.ds PS P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.SH NAME
psroff \- ditroff to a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psroff
[ 
.B \-t
] [
.I "troff options"
] [
.I "spool options"
] [
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I psroff
is a shell script that runs
.RI [ di ] troff (1)
in an environment to produce output on a \*(PS printer.
It uses
.I psdit
to convert
.I ditroff
intermediate output to \*(PS format, and spools this for printing.  
If no 
.I files
are specified, the standard input is used.
.PP
In addition to the standard 
.I ditroff 
options, the following options are understood by 
.IR psroff .
.TP
.B \-t 
sends the \*(PS output to the standard output, 
rather than spooling it to a printer.
Note that this overrides the meaning of the 
.I ditroff
.B \-t 
option; if you want that, run 
.I ditroff
directly.
.PP
In 4.2bsd UNIX systems, the following spooler options are passed on to
.IR lpr .
.TP
.BI \-P printer
causes the output to be sent to the named printer.
.TP
.BI \-# n
causes 
.I n 
copies of the output to be produced.  The default is one.
.TP
.B \-h
suppress the printing of the job burst page.
.TP
.BI \-C " class"
set the job classification for use on the burst page.
.TP
.BI \-J " name"
set the job name for use on the burst page.  Otherwise, the name of the
first input file will be used.
.TP
.BI \-m
send mail after files have been printed.
.PP
In System V UNIX systems, the following spooler options are passed on to
.IR lp .
.TP
.BI \-d dest
causes the output to be sent to the named destination.
.TP
.BI \-n n
causes 
.I n 
copies of the output to be produced.  The default is one.
.TP
.B \-h
suppress the printing of the job burst page.
.TP
.B \-r
don't page-reverse the output.
.TP
.BI \-s
suppress messages from 
.IR lp .
.TP
.BI \-m
send mail after files have been printed.
.TP
.BI \-w
write to user's terminal after files have been printed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "PRINTER (4.2bsd)"
the name of a printer (as in the 
.B \-P
option) for 
.I lpr
to use.  If no 
.B \-P 
option is specified,
.I lpr
will use this printer.  If neither
.B \-P
nor PRINTER is set,
.I psroff
will spool to a printer named ``PostScript''.
.IP "LPDEST (System V)"
the name of a printer (as in the 
.B \-d
option) for 
.I lp
to use.  If no 
.B \-d 
option is specified,
.I lp
will use this printer.  If neither
.B \-d
nor LPDEST is set,
.I psroff
will spool to a printer class named ``PostScript''.
.SH FILES
.TP 2.2i
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*
standard macro files
.TP
XDITDIRX/devpsc/*
\fIditroff\fR description files for \*(PS virtual device.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
[di]troff(1), psdit(1), eqn(1), tbl(1), pic(1), refer(1), ideal(1).
.br
4.2bsd: lpr(1).
.br
System V: lp(1).
.br
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I A TROFF Tutorial
and
.I A Typesetter-independent TROFF
.br
.I
Documenter's Workbench
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH BUGS
The 
.I eqn
supplied with 
.I ditroff
is different than the original.  Use the options 
.B \-r576
.B \-m2
for best results.  Other programs (e.g.,
.IR pic )
distributed with 
.I ditroff
have the device names compiled in (so much for device independence!).
They should just have a 
.B \-T
option and read the device description file for the information they need.
Use
.B \-T576
with the
.I pic
distributed with 
.B DWB.
.SH NOTES
\*(PS is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.br
Documenter's Workbench is a trademark of AT&T Technologies.
