'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man4.exports @(#)exports	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH EXPORTS 4
.SH NAME
exports \- NFS filesystems being exported
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/exports
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/exports
describes the filesystems which are being exported to 
.IR nfs (7)
clients.  It is created by the system administrator
using a text editor and processed by the
.I mount
request daemon
.IR mountd (1M)
each time a mount request is received.
.PP
The file consists of a list of filesystems, the
.IR netgroup (4)
or machine names allowed to remote mount each filesystem, and possibly
a list of options.
The filesystem names are left justified and followed by
a list of names separated by white space.
The names will be looked up in
.I /etc/netgroup
and then in
.IR /etc/hosts .
Options begin with a hyphen and are separated by commas.
Currently
.I mountd
understands the following options:
.RS
.IP \f3ro\fP
Prevent clients from writing to this entry's filesystem;
allow reading only.
.IP \f3rw\fP
Allow clients both to read and to write this entry's filesystem.
.IP \f3hide\fP
Prevents a client who mounts this entry's parent filesystem
from accessing files in this filesystem.  Instead, clients who
mount a filesystem containing a hidden filesystem access the
directory on which the hidden child is mounted, not the child
filesystem's root directory.
.IP \f3nohide\fP
Allows a client who mounts this entry's parent filesystem
to access files in this filesystem.
.IP \f3rootid=\f2uid\fP
Translate credentials for client operations issued by
.I root
on a client to have effective user-id
.IR uid .
.I uid
may be either a name or an integer user-id from 
.I /etc/passwd
.RE
The default options are
.BR rw,hide,rootid=nobody .
A filesystem name with no name list following means export to everyone.
A ``#'' anywhere in the file indicates a comment
extending to the end of the line it appears on.
Lines beginning with white space are continuation lines.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
/usr	clients			# export to my clients
/usr/local			# export to the world
/usr2	phoenix sun sundae	# export to only these machines
/usr3	-rootid=guest		# map client root to guest
/	-ro			# export the root and usr filesystems
/usr	-ro,nohide		# export all local filesystems read-only
.sp
Exporting all your machine's local filesystems requires enumerating
all local mount points, and using ``nohide'' for each root filesystem:
.sp .5
/	\-ro
/usr	\-ro,nohide
/d	\-ro,nohide
.fi
.SH FILES
/etc/exports
.SH SEE ALSO
mountd(1M)
