'\"macro stdmacro
.TH FS 4
.SH NAME
file system \- format of system volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/param.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/fs.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/inode.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
A file system is a discipline imposed by the 
U\s-2NIX\s+2 
operating system
on a block-structured device,
for the purpose of implementing the
U\s-2NIX\s+2 abstraction of a file.
Currently two types of file system are supported:  the Bell file system
(formerly known as `the'
U\s-2NIX\s+2
System V
file system; see
.IR bellfs (4)),
and the Extent file system
(see
.IR efs (4)).
Their common features are:
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
A \f2boot block\f1 at byte address 0.
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
A \f2super block\f1 at byte address 512,
containing such information as the number
of blocks and the number of inodes contained
in the file system.
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
A static division of the remaining file system
space into \f2inodes\f1 and \f2data\f1,
determined when the file system is created.
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
One \f2inode\f1 per file,
containing
its access permissions,
the number of references (directory entries) to the file,
its owner,
its logical size,
its times of last use and modification,
and a list designating the blocks
containing its data.
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
A \f2free list\f1 designating blocks available for
allocation to files.
.PP
Their main differences are:
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
Free list organization.
The Bell file system represents the free list as a
chain of
.IR "free blocks" ,
each of which contains some number of block numbers,
the first of which is the number of the next block in the chain.
The Extent file system represents the free list as
a bit map with a `1' for each free block.
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
Inode data block list.
The Bell file system represents the block list as
a list of block numbers.
These block numbers appear in the inode itself and in multiply indirect blocks.
The Extent file system represents the block list as
a list of extent descriptors
(i.e., a logical offset, and a disk block number and a length).
The list appears in the inode itself if the number of extents is small;
otherwise it appears in an array of indirect extents.
.TP "\w'\(bu\ \ 'u"
\(bu
Inode position.
The Bell file system has a single inode region
followed by a single data region.
The Extent file system has some number of
.IR cylinder\0 groups ,
each of which consists of an inode region followed by a data region.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bellfs(4), efs(4), fsck(1M), mkfs(1M), inode(4)
