'\"macro stdmacro
.hw hex-a-dec-i-mal
.TH HOSTS 4
.SH NAME
hosts \- host name data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/hosts
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I hosts
file contains information on       
the known hosts on the DARPA Internet.
This file contains:
.TP
\(bu
lines of text with one or more fields separated by
spaces or tabs
.TP
\(bu
optional comments that begin with a pound sign (#)
and continue to the end of the line
.PP
The first field contains the 4 byte Internet address.
This address is a logical address which identifies
a host 
on the network.  You must specify all four bytes of
the address even if any byte is 0.  Each byte may
be specified in decimal or hexadecimal notation separated 
by a period.  (Precede
hexadecimal digits by 0x.)  For example, 89.0.0.1.
(See 
.IR inet (7P)
for a complete explanation of the ``.'' notation.)
.PP
The second field contains the
official host name
corresponding to the Internet address.
This name is an arbitrary string, preferably long enough
to keep hosts unique on the network.
Typically, a name class is chosen, such as alabama, alaska,
arkansas ... or washington, adams, jefferson ...
.PP
The subsequent fields contain aliases or nicknames
for a particular host.
These aliases
are other names for a particular system.
Typically this is a shorter name
(al, ak, ar ... or george, john, tom),
and may not be unique across the network.
For example, the host alaska could have the following address and alias:
.sp
.ce
129.0.9.5 alaska ak
.PP
Users should put the serial number of each Silicon Graphics, Inc.
workstation as a comment in their 
.I /etc/hosts
file.  This makes it easier for you to find the serial number of 
your machines if you need to call the Geometry Hotline.
.SH CAUTION
Avoid using host names that have more than eight letters or digits,
or host names with upper case letters.
.SH FILES
/etc/hosts
.SH SEE ALSO
hosts.equiv(4)
