'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)hosts.equiv.5 1.1 85/12/28 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH HOSTS.EQUIV 4
.SH NAME
hosts.equiv \- list of trusted hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Hosts.equiv
resides in directory
.I /etc
and contains a list of trusted hosts.
When an
.IR rlogin (1C)
or
.IR rsh (1C)
request from such a host is made, 
and the initiator of the request is in
.IR /etc/passwd ,
then, no further validity checking is done.
That is,
.I rlogin
does not prompt for a password, and
.I rsh
completes successfully.
So a remote user is ``equivalenced'' to a local user
with the same user name when the remote user is in
.IR hosts.equiv .
.PP
The format of
.I hosts.equiv
is a list of names, as in this example:
.IP
 host1
 host2
 +@group1
 -@group2
.PP
A line consisting of a simple host name
means that anyone logging in from that host is trusted.
A line consisting of
.I +@group
means that all hosts in that network group are trusted.
A line consisting of
.I \-@group
means that hosts in that group are not trusted.
Programs scan
.I hosts.equiv
linearly, and stop at the first hit
(either positive for hostname and +@ entries,
or negative for \-@ entries).
A line consisting of a single +
means that everyone is trusted.
.PP
The
.I .rhosts
file has the same format as
.IR hosts.equiv .
When user
.I XXX
executes
.I rlogin
or
.IR rsh ,
the
.I .rhosts
file from
.IR XXX 's
home directory is conceptually concatenated onto the end of
.I hosts.equiv
for permission checking.
However, \-@ entries are not sticky.
If a user is excluded by a minus entry from
.I hosts.equiv
but included in
.IR .rhosts ,
then that user is considered trusted.
In the special case when the user is root,
then only the
.I /.rhosts
file is checked.
.PP
It is also possible to have two entries
(separated by a single space)
on a line of these files.
In this case, if the remote host is equivalenced by the first entry,
then the user named by the second entry is allowed to log in as anyone,
that is, specify any name to the
.B \-l
flag (provided that name is in the
.I /etc/passwd
file, of course).
Thus the entry
.IP
 sundown john
.PP
in
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
allows
.IR john
to log in from sundown as anyone.  The usual usage would be
to put this entry in the
.I .rhosts
file in the home directory for
.I bill .
Then
.I john
may log in as
.I bill
when coming from sundown.
The second entry may be a netgroup, thus
.IP
 +@group1 +@group2
.PP
allows any user in
.I group2
coming from a host in
.IR group1
to log in as anyone.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/hosts.equiv
~/.rhosts
.fi
.SH "WARNING"
The references to network groups (+@ and \-@ entries) in
.I hosts.equiv
and
.I .rhosts
are only supported when the
.I netgroup
file is supplied by the Yellow Pages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rlogin(1C), rsh(1C), netgroup(4), rhosts(4).
