'\"macro stdmacro
'\" t
.TH INODE 4
.SH NAME
inode \- format of an inode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/param.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/inode.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
An
.I inode
is the volume data structure used by a file system
to implement the abstraction of a
U\s-2NIX\s0
file.
(This is not to be confused with the
.I in-core inode
used by the
U\s-2NIX\s0
kernel to manage files in use.)
The size and exact layout of an
.I inode
depends on the type of file system
(e.g., Bell file system or Extent file system).
The size and layout of a Bell file system
.I inode
is described in
.IR bellinode (4).
The size and layout of an Extent file system
.I inode
is described in
.IR efsinode (4).
.PP
Generally,
an
.I inode
contains the type
(e.g., plain file, directory, symbolic link, or device file)
of the file;
its owner, group, and public access permissions;
the owner and group id numbers;
its size in bytes;
the number of links (directory references) to the file;
and the times of last access and last modification to the file.
These times are given in seconds since
the beginning of 1970 GMT.
In addition,
there is
a file system type-dependent representation of
the list of data blocks claimed by the file.
.PP
.nf
.in +.3i
/*
 * This information occurs at the start of all inodes
 * independent of file system type.
 */
struct	icommon {
	ushort	ic_mode;		/* type and access permissions */
	short	ic_nlink;    		/* number of links */
	ushort	ic_uid;      		/* owner's user id number */
	ushort	ic_gid;      		/* group's group id number */
	off_t	ic_size;     		/* number of bytes in file */
};

/*
 * This information occurs somewhere in all inodes,
 * but its location varies according to file system type.
 */
struct itimes {
	time_t	ic_atime;		/* time of last access (to contents) */
	time_t	ic_mtime;		/* of last modification (of contents) */
	time_t	ic_ctime;		/* of last modification to inode */
};
.fi
.in -.3i
.LP
The types
.IR ushort ,
.IR off_t ,
and
.I time_t
are defined in
.IR types (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
bellinode(4), efsinode(4), stat(2), fs(4), types(5).
.\"	@(#)inode.4	5.1 of 10/15/83
