'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RHOSTS 4  
.SH NAME
rhosts \- list of trusted hosts and users
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each user may have a \f2.rhosts\f1 file in his home directory.
This file contains a list of users on other hosts in
the network that are trusted in the following sense:  when
making requests to access the user's system with
.IR rcp (1C),
.IR rlogin (1C),
or
.IR rsh (1C),
they are allowed to assume the user's identity
without specifying a password.
In other words, the remote user has exactly the
same access privileges on the local system that
the owner of the
.I .rhosts
file does and this access is
granted without any attempt to verify
the remote user's identity by requiring him to
enter a password.
The incoming request includes the user name that should
be used on the local system.
The
.I .rhosts
file owned by that local user acts as a logical extension to the
.IR hosts.equiv (4)
file when deciding whether to grant permission for the incoming
.IR rcp ,
.IR rlogin ,
or
.I rsh
request.
.PP
The
.I .rhosts
file has the same format as the
.IR hosts.equiv (4)
file.
.SH NOTES
The owner of the
.I .rhosts
file must be the user in whose home directory
it resides.
The contents of the file will be disregarded if it is owned
by another user.
.PP
Special care should be taken in deciding the contents
of the file
.I /.rhosts.
Any host or user added to this file has the ability
to become the superuser on the local system without
entering the password.
Note that 
.I /.rhosts
are not required. 
.SH FILES
~/.rhosts
.SH SEE ALSO
rcp(1C), rlogin(1C), rsh(1C), hosts.equiv(4)
