'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ||
.TH TERMCAP 4 
.SH NAME
termcap \- terminal capability data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/termcap
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I termcap
is a data base describing terminals
used, e.g., by
.IR vi (1).
Terminals are described in
.I termcap
by giving a set of capabilities which they have, and by describing
how operations are performed.
Padding requirements and initialization sequences
are included in
.I termcap.
.PP
Entries in
.I termcap
consist of a number of `:' separated fields.
The first entry for each terminal gives the names which are known for the
terminal, separated by `|' characters.  The first name is always 2 characters
long and is used by older version 6 systems which store the terminal type
in a 16 bit word in a systemwide data base.
The second name given is the most common abbreviation for the terminal, and the
last name given should be a long name fully identifying the terminal.
The second name should contain no blanks; the last name may well contain
blanks for readability.
.SH CAPABILITIES
.nf
.ta \w'(P*)\ \ 'u
(P)	indicates padding may be specified
(P*)	indicates that padding may be based on no. lines affected
.PP
.ta \w'k0-k9\ \ 'u +\w'Type\ \ 'u +\w'Pad?\ \ 'u
\f3Name	Type	Pad?	Description\f1
ae	str	(P)	End alternate character set
al	str	(P*)	Add new blank line
am	bool		Terminal has automatic margins
as	str	(P)	Start alternate character set
bc	str		Backspace if not \f3^H\f1
bs	bool		Terminal can backspace with \f3^H\f1
bt	str	(P)	Back tab
bw	bool		Backspace wraps from column 0 to last column
CC	str		Command character in prototype if terminal settable
cd	str	(P*)	Clear to end of display
ce	str	(P)	Clear to end of line
ch	str	(P)	Like cm but horizontal motion only, line stays same
cl	str	(P*)	Clear screen
cm	str	(P)	Cursor motion
co	num		Number of columns in a line
cr	str	(P*)	Carriage return, (default \f3^M\f1)
cs	str	(P)	Change scrolling region (vt100), like cm
cv	str	(P)	Like ch but vertical only.
da	bool		Display may be retained above
dB	num		Number of millisec of bs delay needed
db	bool		Display may be retained below
dC	num		Number of millisec of cr delay needed
dc	str	(P*)	Delete character
dF	num		Number of millisec of ff delay needed
dl	str	(P*)	Delete line
dm	str		Delete mode (enter)
dN	num		Number of millisec of nl delay needed
do	str		Down one line
dT	num		Number of millisec of tab delay needed
ed	str		End delete mode
ei	str		End insert mode; give \*(lq:ei=:\*(rq if \f3ic\f1
eo	str		Can erase overstrikes with a blank
ff	str	(P*)	Hardcopy terminal page eject (default \f3^L\f1)
hc	bool		Hardcopy terminal
hd	str		Half-line down (forward 1/2 linefeed)
ho	str		Home cursor (if no \f3cm\f1)
hu	str		Half-line up (reverse 1/2 linefeed)
hz	str		Hazeltine; can't print ~'s
ic	str	(P)	Insert character
if	str		Name of file containing \f3is\f1
im	str		Insert mode (enter); give \*(lq:im=:\*(rq if \f3ic\f1
in	bool		Insert mode distinguishes nulls on display
ip	str	(P*)	Insert pad after character inserted
is	str		Terminal initialization string
k0-k9	str		Sent by \*(lqother\*(rq function keys 0-9
kb	str		Sent by backspace key
kd	str		Sent by terminal down arrow key
ke	str		Out of \*(lqkeypad transmit\*(rq mode
kh	str		Sent by home key
kl	str		Sent by terminal left arrow key
kn	num		Number of \*(lqother\*(rq keys
ko	str		Termcap entries for other non-function keys
kr	str		Sent by terminal right arrow key
ks	str		Put terminal in \*(lqkeypad transmit\*(rq mode
ku	str		Sent by terminal up arrow key
l0-l9	str		Labels on \*(lqother\*(rq function keys
li	num		Number of lines on screen or page
ll	str		Last line, first column (if no \f3cm\f1)
ma	str		Arrow key map, used by vi version 2 only
mi	bool		Safe to move while in insert mode
ml	str		Memory lock on above cursor.
ms	bool		Safe to move while in standout and underline mode
mu	str		Memory unlock (turn off memory lock).
nc	bool		No correctly working carriage return (DM2500,H2000)
nd	str		Non-destructive space (cursor right)
nl	str	(P*)	Newline character (default \f3\en\f1)
ns	bool		Terminal is a \s-2CRT\s+2 but doesn't scroll.
os	bool		Terminal overstrikes
pc	str		Pad character (rather than null)
pt	bool		Has hardware tabs (may need to be set with \f3is\f1)
se	str		End stand out mode
sf	str	(P)	Scroll forwards
sg	num		Number of blank chars left by so or se
so	str		Begin stand out mode
sr	str	(P)	Scroll reverse (backwards)
ta	str	(P)	Tab (other than \f3^I\f1 or with padding)
tc	str		Entry of similar terminal - must be last
te	str		String to end programs that use \f3cm\fP
ti	str		String to begin programs that use \f3cm\f1
uc	str		Underscore one char and move past it
ue	str		End underscore mode
ug	num		Number of blank chars left by us or ue
ul	bool		Terminal underlines even though it doesn't overstrike
up	str		Upline (cursor up)
us	str		Start underscore mode
vb	str		Visible bell (may not move cursor)
ve	str		Sequence to end open/visual mode
vs	str		Sequence to start open/visual mode
xb	bool		Beehive (f1=escape, f2=ctrl C)
xn	bool		A newline is ignored after a wrap (Concept)
xr	bool		Return acts like \f3ce\fP \er \en (Delta Data)
xs	bool		Standout not erased by writing over it (HP 264?)
xt	bool		Tabs are destructive, magic so char (Teleray 1061)
.fi
.DT
.PP
.B A Sample Entry
.PP
The following entry, which describes the Concept\-100, is among the more
complex entries in the
.I termcap
file as of this writing.
(This particular Concept entry is outdated
and is used as an example only.)
.PP
.nf
c1\||\|c100\||\|concept100:is=\eEU\eEf\eE7\eE5\eE8\eEl\eENH\eEK\eE\e200\eEo&\e200:\e
      :al=3*\eE^R:am:bs:cd=16*\eE^C:ce=16\eE^S:cl=2*^L:cm=\eEa%+ %+ :\e
      :co#80:dc=16\eE^A:dl=3*\eE^B:ei=\eE\e200:eo:im=\eE^P:in:ip=16*:\e
      :li#24:mi:nd=\eE=:se=\eEd\eEe:so=\eED\eEE:ta=8\et:ul:up=\eE;:\e
      :vb=\eEk\eEK:xn:
.fi
.PP
Entries may continue onto multiple lines by giving a \e as the last
character of a line, and that empty fields
may be included for readability (here between the last field on a line
and the first field on the next).
Capabilities in
.I termcap
are of three types:
Boolean capabilities which indicate that the terminal has
some particular feature, numeric capabilities giving the size of the terminal
or the size of particular delays, and string
capabilities, which give a sequence which can be used to perform particular
terminal operations.
.PP
.B Types of Capabilities
.PP
All capabilities have two letter codes.  For instance, the fact that
the Concept has \*(lqautomatic margins\*(rq (i.e. an automatic return and linefeed
when the end of a line is reached) is indicated by the capability \f3am\f1.
Hence the description of the Concept includes \f3am\f1.
Numeric capabilities are followed by the character `#' and then the value.
Thus \f3co\f1 which indicates the number of columns the terminal has
gives the value `80' for the Concept.
.PP
Finally, string valued capabilities, such as \f3ce\f1 (clear to end of line
sequence) are given by the two character code, an `=', and then a string
ending at the next following `:'.  A delay in milliseconds may appear after
the `=' in such a capability, and padding characters are supplied by the
editor after the remainder of the string is sent to provide this delay.
The delay can be either an integer, e.g. `20', or an integer followed by
a `*', i.e. `3*'.  A `*' indicates that the padding required is proportional
to the number of lines affected by the operation, and the amount given is
the per-affected-unit padding required.
When a `*' is specified, it is sometimes useful to give a delay of the form
`3.5' - specify a delay per unit to tenths of milliseconds.
.PP
A number of escape sequences are provided in the string valued capabilities
for easy encoding of characters there.  A \f3\eE\f1 maps to an \s-2ESCAPE\s0
character, \f3^x\f1 maps to a control-x for any appropriate x, and the sequences
\f3\en \er \et \eb \ef\f1 give a newline, return, tab, backspace and formfeed.
Finally, characters may be given as three octal digits after a \f3\e\f1,
and the characters \f3^\f1 and \f3\e\f1 may be given as \f3\e^\f1 and \f3\e\e\f1.
If it is necessary to place a \f3:\f1 in a capability it must be escaped in
octal as \f3\e072\f1.
If it is necessary to place a null character in a string capability it
must be encoded as \f3\e200\f1.  The routines which deal with
.I termcap
use C strings, and strip the high bits of the output very late so that
a \f3\e200\f1 comes out as a \f3\e000\f1 would.
.br
.ne 5
.PP
.B Preparing Descriptions
.PP
We now outline how to prepare descriptions of terminals.
The most effective way to prepare a terminal description is by imitating
the description of a similar terminal in
.I termcap
and to build up a description gradually, using partial descriptions
with
.I ex
to check that they are correct.
Be aware that a very unusual terminal may expose deficiencies in
the ability of the
.I termcap
file to describe it
or bugs in
.I ex.
To easily test a new terminal description you can set the environment variable
TERMCAP to a pathname of a file containing the description you are working
on and the editor will look there rather than in
.I /etc/termcap.
TERMCAP can also be set to the termcap entry itself
to avoid reading the file when starting up the editor.
.PP
.B Basic capabilities
.PP
The number of columns on each line for the terminal is given by the
\f3co\f1 numeric capability.  If the terminal is a \s-2CRT\s0, then the
number of lines on the screen is given by the \f3li\f1 capability.
If the terminal wraps around to the beginning of the next line when
it reaches the right margin, then it should have the \f3am\f1 capability.
If the terminal can clear its screen, then this is given by the
\f3cl\f1 string capability.  If the terminal can backspace, then it
should have the \f3bs\f1 capability, unless a backspace is accomplished
by a character other than \f3^H\f1 (ugh) in which case you should give
this character as the \f3bc\f1 string capability.  If it overstrikes
(rather than clearing a position when a character is struck over)
then it should have the \f3os\f1 capability.
.PP
A very important point here is that the local cursor motions encoded
in
.I termcap
are undefined at the left and top edges of a \s-2CRT\s0 terminal.
The editor will never attempt to backspace around the left edge, nor
will it attempt to go up locally off the top.  The editor assumes that
feeding off the bottom of the screen will cause the screen to scroll up,
and the \f3am\f1 capability tells whether the cursor sticks at the right
edge of the screen.  If the terminal has switch selectable automatic margins,
the
.I termcap
file usually assumes that this is on, i.e. \f3am\f1.
.PP
These capabilities suffice to describe hardcopy and \*(lqglass-tty\*(rq terminals.
Thus the model 33 teletype is described as
.PP
.RS
t3\||\|33\||\|tty33:co#72:os
.RE
.PP
while the Lear Siegler \s-2ADM\-3\s0 is described as
.PP
.RS
cl\||\|adm3|3|lsi adm3:am:bs:cl=^Z:li#24:co#80
.RE
.PP
.B Cursor addressing
.PP
Cursor addressing in the terminal is described by a
\f3cm\f1 string capability, with 
.IR printf (3S)
like escapes \f3%x\f1 in it.
These substitute to encodings of the current line or column position,
while other characters are passed through unchanged.
If the \f3cm\f1 string is thought of as being a function, then its
arguments are the line and then the column to which motion is desired,
and the \f3%\f1 encodings have the following meanings:
.PP
.RS .3i
.ta \w'%>xy\ \ 'u
.nf
%d	as in \f2printf\f1, 0 origin
%2	like %2d
%3	like %3d
%.	like %c
%+x	adds \f2x\f1 to value, then %.
%>xy	if value > x adds y, no output.
%r	reverses order of line and column, no output
%i	increments line/column (for 1 origin)
%%	gives a single %
%n	exclusive or row and column with 0140 (DM2500)
%B	BCD (16*(x/10)) + (x%10), no output.
%D	Reverse coding (x-2*(x%16)), no output. (Delta Data).
.fi
.RE
.PP
Consider the HP2645, which, to get to row 3 and column 12, needs
to be sent \eE&a12c03Y padded for 6 milliseconds.  Note that the order
of the rows and columns is inverted here, and that the row and column
are printed as two digits.  Thus its \f3cm\f1 capability is \*(lqcm=6\eE&%r%2c%2Y\*(rq.
The Microterm \s-2ACT-IV\s0 needs the current row and column sent
preceded by a \f3^T\f1, with the row and column simply encoded in binary,
\*(lqcm=^T%.%.\*(rq.  Terminals which use \*(lq%.\*(rq need to be able to
backspace the cursor (\f3bs\f1 or \f3bc\f1),
and to move the cursor up one line on the screen (\f3up\f1 introduced below).
This is necessary because it is not always safe to transmit \f3\et\f1, \f3\en\f1
\f3^D\f1 and \f3\er\f1, as the system may change or discard them.
.PP
A final example is the \s-2LSI ADM\s0-3a, which uses row and column
offset by a blank character, thus \*(lqcm=\eE=%+ %+ \*(rq.
.PP
.B Cursor motions
.PP
If the terminal can move the cursor one position to the right, leaving
the character at the current position unchanged, then this sequence should
be given as \f3nd\f1 (non-destructive space).  If it can move the cursor
up a line
on the screen in the same column, this should be given as \f3up\f1.
If the terminal has no cursor addressing capability, but can home the cursor
(to very upper left corner of screen) then this can be given as
\f3ho\f1; similarly a fast way of getting to the lower left hand corner
can be given as \f3ll\f1; this may involve going up with \f3up\f1
from the home position,
but the editor will never do this itself (unless \f3ll\f1 does) because it
makes no assumption about the effect of moving up from the home position.
.PP
.B Area clears
.PP
If the terminal can clear from the current position to the end of the
line, leaving the cursor where it is, this should be given as \f3ce\f1.
If the terminal can clear from the current position to the end of the
display, then this should be given as \f3cd\f1.
The editor only uses
\f3cd\f1 from the first column of a line.
.PP
.B Insert/delete line
.PP
If the terminal can open a new blank line before the line where the cursor
is, this should be given as \f3al\f1; this is done only from the first
position of a line.  The cursor must then appear on the newly blank line.
If the terminal can delete the line which the cursor is on, then this
should be given as \f3dl\f1; this is done only from the first position on
the line to be deleted.
If the terminal can scroll the screen backwards, then this can be given as
\f3sb\f1, but just \f3al\f1 suffices.
If the terminal can retain display memory above then the
\f3da\f1 capability should be given; if display memory can be retained
below then \f3db\f1 should be given.  These let the editor understand
that deleting a line on the screen may bring non-blank lines up from below
or that scrolling back with \f3sb\f1 may bring down non-blank lines.
.PP
.B Insert/delete character
.PP
There are two basic kinds of intelligent terminals with respect to
insert/delete character which can be described using
.I termcap.
The most common insert/delete character operations affect only the characters
on the current line and shift characters off the end of the line rigidly.
Other terminals, such as the Concept 100 and the Perkin Elmer Owl, make
a distinction between typed and untyped blanks on the screen, shifting
upon an insert or delete only to an untyped blank on the screen which is
either eliminated, or expanded to two untyped blanks.  You can find out
which kind of terminal you have by clearing the screen and then typing
text separated by cursor motions.  Type \*(lqabc\ \ \ \ def\*(rq using local
cursor motions (not spaces) between the \*(lqabc\*(rq and the \*(lqdef\*(rq.
Then position the cursor before the \*(lqabc\*(rq and put the terminal in insert
mode.  If typing characters causes the rest of the line to shift
rigidly and characters to fall off the end, then your terminal does
not distinguish between blanks and untyped positions.  If the \*(lqabc\*(rq
shifts over to the \*(lqdef\*(rq which then move together around the end of the
current line and onto the next as you insert, you have the second type of
terminal, and should give the capability \f3in\f1, which stands for
\*(lqinsert null\*(rq.  If your terminal does something different and unusual
then you may have to modify the editor to get it to use the insert
mode your terminal defines.  We have seen no terminals which have an insert
mode not falling into one of these two classes.
.PP
The editor can handle both terminals which have an insert mode, and terminals
which send a simple sequence to open a blank position on the current line.
Give as \f3im\f1 the sequence to get into insert mode, or give it an
empty value if your terminal uses a sequence to insert a blank position.
Give as \f3ei\f1 the sequence to leave insert mode (give this, with
an empty value also if you gave \f3im\f1 so).
Now give as \f3ic\f1 any sequence needed to be sent just before sending
the character to be inserted.  Most terminals with a true insert mode
will not give \f3ic\f1, terminals which send a sequence to open a screen
position should give it here.  (Insert mode is preferable to the sequence
to open a position on the screen if your terminal has both.)
If post insert padding is needed, give this as a number of milliseconds
in \f3ip\f1 (a string option).  Any other sequence which may need to be
sent after an insert of a single character may also be given in \f3ip\f1.
.PP
It is occasionally necessary to move around while in insert mode
to delete characters on the same line (e.g. if there is a tab after
the insertion position).  If your terminal allows motion while in
insert mode you can give the capability \f3mi\f1 to speed up inserting
in this case.  Omitting \f3mi\f1 will affect only speed.   Some terminals
(notably Datamedia's) must not have \f3mi\f1 because of the way their
insert mode works.
.PP
Finally, you can specify delete mode by giving \f3dm\f1 and \f3ed\f1
to enter and exit delete mode, and \f3dc\f1 to delete a single character
while in delete mode.
.PP
.B "Highlighting, underlining, and visible bells"
.PP
If your terminal has sequences to enter and exit standout mode these
can be given as \f3so\f1 and \f3se\f1 respectively.
If there are several flavors of standout mode
(such as inverse video, blinking, or underlining \-
half bright is not usually an acceptable \*(lqstandout\*(rq mode
unless the terminal is in inverse video mode constantly)
the preferred mode is inverse video by itself.
If the code to change into or out of standout
mode leaves one or even two blank spaces on the screen,
as the TVI 912 and Teleray 1061 do,
then \f3ug\f1 should be given to tell how many spaces are left.
.PP
Codes to begin underlining and end underlining can be given as \f3us\f1
and \f3ue\f1 respectively.
If the terminal has a code to underline the current character and move
the cursor one space to the right, 
such as the Microterm Mime,
this can be given as \f3uc\f1.
(If the underline code does not move the cursor to the right,
give the code followed by a nondestructive space.)
.PP
Many terminals, such as the HP 2621, automatically leave standout
mode when they move to a new line or the cursor is addressed.
Programs using standout mode should exit standout mode before
moving the cursor or sending a newline.
.PP
If the terminal has
a way of flashing the screen to indicate an error quietly (a bell replacement)
then this can be given as \f3vb\f1; it must not move the cursor.
If the terminal should be placed in a different mode during
open and visual modes of
.I ex,
this can be given as
\f3vs\f1 and \f3ve\f1, sent at the start and end of these modes
respectively.  These can be used to change, e.g., from an underline
to a block cursor and back.
.PP
If the terminal needs to be in a special mode when running
a program that addresses the cursor,
the codes to enter and exit this mode can be given as \f3ti\f1 and \f3te\f1.
This arises, for example, from terminals like the Concept with more than
one page of memory.
If the terminal has only memory relative cursor addressing and not screen
relative cursor addressing, a one screen-sized window must be fixed into
the terminal for cursor addressing to work properly.
.PP
If your terminal correctly generates underlined characters
(with no special codes needed)
even though it does not overstrike,
then you should give the capability \f3ul\f1.
If overstrikes are erasable with a blank,
then this should be indicated by giving \f3eo\f1.
.PP
.B Keypad
.PP
If the terminal has a keypad that transmits codes when the keys are pressed,
this information can be given. Note that it is not possible to handle
terminals where the keypad only works in local (this applies, for example,
to the unshifted HP 2621 keys).
If the keypad can be set to transmit or not transmit,
give these codes as \f3ks\f1 and \f3ke\f1.
Otherwise the keypad is assumed to always transmit.
The codes sent by the left arrow, right arrow, up arrow, down arrow,
and home keys can be given as \f3kl, kr, ku, kd, \f1and\f3 kh\f1 respectively.
If there are function keys such as f0, f1, ..., f9, the codes they send
can be given as \f3k0, k1, ..., k9\f1.
If these keys have labels other than the default f0 through f9, the labels
can be given as \f3l0, l1, ..., l9\f1.
If there are other keys that transmit the same code as the terminal expects
for the corresponding function, such as clear screen, the \f2termcap\fP
2 letter codes can be given in the \f3ko\f1 capability,
for example, \*(lq:ko=cl,ll,sf,sb:\*(rq, which says that the terminal has
clear, home down, scroll down, and scroll up keys that transmit
the same thing as the cl, ll, sf, and sb entries.
.PP
The
.B ma
entry is also used to indicate arrow keys on terminals which have
single character arrow keys.  It is obsolete but still in use in
version 2 of vi, which must be run on some minicomputers due to
memory limitations.
This field is redundant with
.BR "kl, kr, ku, kd, " and " kh" .
It consists of groups of two characters.
In each group, the first character is what an arrow key sends, the
second character is the corresponding vi command.
These commands are
.B h
for
.BR kl ,
.B j
for
.BR kd ,
.B k
for
.BR ku ,
.B l
for
.BR kr ,
and
.B H
for
.BR kh .
For example, the Mime would be
.B ":ma=^Kj^Zk^Xl:"
indicating arrow keys left (^H), down (^K), up (^Z), and right (^X).
(There is no home key on the Mime.)
.PP
.B Miscellaneous
.PP
If the terminal requires other than a null (zero) character as a pad,
then this can be given as \f3pc\f1.
.PP
If tabs on the terminal require padding, or if the terminal uses a
character other than \f3^I\f1 to tab, then this can be given as \f3ta\f1.
.PP
Hazeltine terminals, which don't allow `~' characters to be printed should
indicate \f3hz\f1.
Datamedia terminals, which echo carriage-return linefeed for carriage return
and then ignore a following linefeed should indicate \f3nc\f1.
Early Concept terminals, which ignore a linefeed immediately after an \f3am\f1
wrap, should indicate \f3xn\f1.
If an erase-eol is required to get rid of standout
(instead of merely writing on top of it),
\f3xs\fP should be given.
Teleray terminals, where tabs turn all characters moved over to blanks,
should indicate \f3xt\f1.
Other specific terminal problems may be corrected by adding more
capabilities of the form \f3x\f2x\f1.
.PP
Other capabilities
include \f3is\f1, an initialization string for the terminal,
and \f3if\f1, the name of a file containing long initialization strings.
These strings are expected to properly clear and then set the tabs
on the terminal, if the terminal has settable tabs.
If both are given, \f3is\f1 will be printed before \f3if\f1.
This is useful where \f3if\f1 is
.I /etc/tabset/std
but \f3is\f1
clears the tabs first.
.PP
.B Similar Terminals
.PP
If there are two very similar terminals,
one can be defined as being just like the other with certain exceptions.
The string capability \f3tc\f1 can be given
with the name of the similar terminal.
This capability must be \f2last\fP and the combined length of the two entries
must not exceed 1024. Since
.I termlib
routines search the entry from left to right, and since the tc capability is
replaced by the corresponding entry, the capabilities given at the left
override the ones in the similar terminal.
A capability can be cancelled with \f3xx@\f1 where xx is the capability.
For example, the entry
.DT
.PP
	hn\||\|2621nl:ks@:ke@:tc=2621:
.PP
defines a 2621nl that does not have the \f3ks\f1 or \f3ke\f1 capabilities,
and hence does not turn on the function key labels when in visual mode.
This is useful for different modes for a terminal, or for different
user preferences.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/etc/termcap\ \ \ 'u
/etc/termcap	file containing terminal descriptions
.SH SEE ALSO
ex(1), more(1), tset(1), ul(1), vi(1), termcap(3X).
.SH BUGS
.I ex
allows only 256 characters for string capabilities, and the routines
in 
.I termcap (3X)
do not check for overflow of this buffer.
The total length of a single entry (excluding only escaped newlines)
may not exceed 1024.
.PP
The
.BR ma ,
.BR vs ,
and
.B ve
entries are specific to the
.I vi
program.
.PP
Not all programs support all entries.
There are entries that are not supported by any program.
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy
.br
Mark Horton added underlining and keypad support
.\"	@(#)termcap.5	5.1 of 10/24/83
