'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ENSCRIPT 1 
.SH NAME
enscript \- convert text files to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format for printing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B enscript
[ options ] [ spooler options ] [ files ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I enscript
reads in plain text files, converts them to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format, and spools them for 
printing on a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 printer.  Fonts, headings, limited formatting 
options and spooling options may be specified.
.PP
Font specifications have two parts:
A font name as known to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 (e.g., Times-Roman, Times-BoldItalic
Helvetica, Courier), and a point size (1 point=1/72 inch \- 8 point 
is a good small font).  So Courier-Bold8 is 8 point Courier Bold, 
Helvetica12 is 12 point Helvetica.
.PP
The environment variable ENSCRIPT may be used to specify defaults.  The 
value of ENSCRIPT is parsed as a string of arguments 
.I before 
the arguments 
that appear on the command line.  For example:
.PP
.RS 
% setenv ENSCRIPT \-fTimes-Roman8
.RE
.PP
sets your default body font to 8 point Times Roman.
.PP
The possible 
.I options 
are:
.TP
.B \-2
set in two columns.
.TP
.B \-1
set in one column (the default).
.TP
.B \-r
rotate the output 90 degrees (landscape mode).
This is good for output that requires a wide page or for program listings
when used in conjunction with \-2.
"enscript \-2r files" is a nice way to get program listings.
.TP
.B \-R
don't rotate, also known as portrait mode (the default).
.TP
.B \-G
print in gaudy mode: causes page headings, dates, page numbers to be printed
in a flashy style, at some slight performance expense.
.TP
.B \-l
simulate a line printer: make pages 66 lines long and omit headers.
.TP
.B \-B
omit page headings.
.TP
.BI \-b header
sets the string to be used for page headings to
.IR header .  
The default header is constructed from the file name, its last
modification date, and a page number.
.TP
.BI \-L lines
set the maximum number of lines to output on a page.
.I Enscript
usually computes how many to put on a page based on point size,
and may put fewer per page than requested by 
.IR lines .
.TP
.BI \-f font
sets the font to be used for the body of each page.
Defaults to Courier10, unless two column rotated mode is used, in which case
it defaults to Courier7.
.TP
.BI \-F hfont
sets the font to be used for page headings.
Defaults to Courier-Bold10.
.TP
.BI \-p out
causes the P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 file to be written to the named file rather than
being spooled for printing.  As a special case, 
.B \-p
will send the P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-g
causes the fact that a file is garbage to be ignored.  Normally, any file
with more than a small number of non-printing characters is suspected of
being garbage, and not printed \- this option means "print it anyway."
.TP
.B \-o
If
.I enscript
cannot find characters in a font, the missing characters are listed.
.TP
.B \-q
causes 
.I enscript
to be quiet about what it is doing. 
.I Enscript 
won't report about pages, destination, omitted characters, etc.  
Fatal errors are still reported to the standard error output.
.TP
.B \-k
enables page prefeed (if the printer supports it).  This allows
simple documents (e.g., program listings in one font)
to print somewhat faster by keeping the printer running between pages.  
.TP
.B \-K
disable page prefeed (the default).
.TP
.B \-h
suppress printing of job burst page.
.PP
The following 
.I spooler options 
are also recognized:
.TP
.BI \-t title
sets job title for use on the burst page.
.TP
.BI \-d dest
causes the output to be sent to the named printer or printer class.
.TP
.BI \-n n
causes 
.I n
copies of the output to be produced. The default is one.
.TP
.BR \-w " or " \-m
causes the printer daemon to write or send mail upon job completion.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
enscript \-daleph boring.txt
.RE
.PP
prints a copy of the file called boring.txt on the printer called
"aleph".
.PP
.RS
enscript \-2r boring.c
.RE
.PP
prints a two-up landscape listing of the file called boring.c on 
the default printer.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP ENSCRIPT \w'PSTEMPDIR\0\0\0'u
string of options to be used by
.I enscript.
.IP PSLIBDIR
path name of a directory to use instead of 
.B /usr/lib/ps
for enscript prologue and font metric files.
.IP PSTEMPDIR
path name of temporary directory to use instead of 
.B /usr/tmp
for spooled temporary files.
.IP "LPDEST"
the name of a printer (as in the 
.B \-d
option) for 
.I lp
to use.  If no 
.B \-d
option is specified,
.IR lp (1)
will use this printer.  If neither 
.B \-d 
nor LPDEST is set,
.I enscript
will spool to a printer class named ``PostScript''.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/ps/enscript.pro\ \ \ 'u
/usr/lib/ps/\(**.afm	font metrics files.
.br
/usr/lib/ps/enscript.pro	prologue for enscript files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cancel(1), getopt(3C), lp(1), lpstat(1), pr(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.br
Gaudy mode by Guy Riddle of AT&T Bell Laboratories
.SH FEATURES
Options and the ENSCRIPT environment string are parsed in
.IR getopt (3C)
fashion.
.SH BUGS
Long lines are truncated.  Line truncation may be 
off by a little bit as printer margins vary.  There should be a 
"wrap" option and multiple (truncated or wrapped) columns.
.\".PP
.\".I Enscript
.\"generates temporary files which are spooled for printing.  The temporary file
.\"names are used by the spooling software (e.g., 
.\".IR lpq ),
.\"rather than the symbolic job name passed to 
.\".IR lpr .
.PP
There are too many options.
.SH NOTES
P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.br
Times and Helvetica are registered trademarks of Allied Corporation.
