'\"macro stdmacro
.TH GRAP 1
.SH NAME
grap \- pic preprocessor for drawing graphs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grap 
[
.B \-l
] [
.BR \-T tty_type
] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I grap
is a language for typesetting graphs.  It is also the name of the
preprocessor that feeds input to
.IR pic (1).
Thus, a typical command line would appear as follows:
.PP
.RS
grap \f2files\f1 \||\| pic \||\| troff [ \||\| \f2typesetter\f1 ]
.RE
.PP
If you do not specify 
.IR files , " grap"
reads the standard input.
.I grap
will also read the standard input if it encounters
.B \-
as a
.I file
argument.
.PP
Graphs are surrounded by the 
.IR troff (1)
"commands"
.B .G1
and 
.BR .G2 .
Data that is enclosed is scaled and plotted, with tick marks
supplied automatically.  Command exist to modify the frame, add
labels, override the default ticks, change the plotting style, define
coordinate ranges and transformations, and include data from files.
In addition,
.I grap
provides the same loops, conditionals and macro processing that
.I pic
does.
.SS Options
.TP 9
.B \-l
Stops
.I grap
from include a library file of macro defines,
.B /usr/lib/dwb/grap.defines.
.TP
.B \-T
specifies
.I tty_type 
as
.IR grap 's
output device.  Currently supported devices are
.B aps
(Autologic APS-5) and
.B di10
(Imagen Imprint 10).
.B \-Taps
is default.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/dwb/grap.defines	definitions for standard plotting characters, e.g. bullet.
.SH SEE ALSO
pic(1), troff(1).
.PP
The section entitled ``grap'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench User's Guide\f1.
