'\"macro stdmacro
.\" %W%
.TH MACREF 1
.SH NAME
macref \- produce cross-reference listing of macro files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B macref
.RB [\0  \-t \0]
.RB [\0  \-s \0]
.RB [\0  \-n \0]
.\".RB [\0  \-\^\- \0]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I macref
reads the named 
.IR files ,
(which are assumed to be \f2nroff\f1(1)/\f2troff\f1(1) input)
and produces a cross-reference listing of
the symbols in the input.
.PP
A
.B \-t
on the command line causes a macro table of contents to be printed.
The option
.B \-s
causes symbol- use statistics to be output.
The option
.B \-n
causes one line to be printed for each reference to a symbol.
The options may be grouped behind one \-.
.\"You may use "\-\^\-" to delimit the end of options.  
.I macref
does not accept 
.B \- 
to mean read from the standard input.
.PP
The default output is a list of the symbols found in the input, each 
accompanied by a list of all references to that symbol.
.I macref
lists the sysmbols alphabetically in the leftmost column, with the
references following to the right.
Each reference is given in the form:
.PP
.RS
[ [(\f2NMname\f1)] \f2Mname\f1\-] \f2type\f1 \f2lnum\f1 [#]
.RE
.PP
where the fields have the following meanings:
.TP 9
\f2Mname\f1
the name of the macro within which the reference occurs.
This field is missing if the reference occurs at the text level.
Any names listed in the \f2NMname\f1 part
are macros within which \f2Mname\f1 is defined.
.TP 9
\f2type\f1
the type associated, by context, with this occurrence of the symbol.
The types may be:
.RS 9
.PD 0
.TP 6
.B r
request
.TP 6
.B m
macro
.TP 6
.B d
diversion
.TP 6
.B s
string
.TP 6
.B n
number register
.TP 6
.B p
parameter
(e.g. \e$x is a parameter reference to x.
Note that parameters are never modified, and that the only
valid parameter symbol names
are 1, 2, ... 9).
.PD 1
.RE
.TP 9
\f2lnum\f1
the line number on which the reference occurred.
.TP 9
#
this reference
modifies the value of the symbol.
.PP
Generated names are listed under the artificial symbol name ``~sym''.
.SH SEE ALSO
nroff (1), 
troff (1),
mm (1),
mv (5) ,
mmt (1),
man (5).
