'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MM 1
.SH NAME
mm \- prints documents formatted with the mm macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use
.I mm
to format documents using
.I nroff
and the
.I mm
text-formatting macro package.
.I mm
has options to specify
preprocessing by
.IR tbl (1)
and/or
.IR neqn ,
and postprocessing by various terminal-oriented output filters.
The proper pipelines and the
required arguments and flags for
.I nroff
and
.I mm
are generated, depending on the options you select.
.PP
.I Options\^
for
.I mm\^
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags (e.g.,
.BR \-rC3 )
are passed
to
.I nroff
You may use such options in any order, but you
must put them before the
.I files
arguments.
If you do not specify arguments,
.I mm\^
prints a list of its options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 9
.BI \-T tty_type
Specifies the type of output terminal.
Here is a list of recognized values for
.IR tty_type .
.RS
.TP p
.B 2631
Hewlett-Packard 2631 printer in regular mode
.TP
.B 2631\-c
Hewlett-Packard 2631 printer in compressed mode
.TP
.B 2631\-e
Hewlett Packard 2631 printer in expanded mode
.TP
.B 300
DASI-300 printer
.TP
.B 300-12
DASI-300 terminal set to 12-pitch (12 characters per inch)
.TP
.B 300s
DASI-300s printer (300S is a synonym)
.TP
.B 300s-12
DASI-300s printer set to 12-pitch (12 characters per inch) (300S is a synonym)
.TP
.B 37
Teletype Model 37 terminal
.TP
.B 382
DTC-382
.TP
.B 4000a
Trendata 4000a terminal (4000A is a synonym)
.TP
.B 450
DASI-450 (Diablo Hyterm) printer
.TP
.B 450-12 
DASI-450 terminal set to 12-pitch (12 characters per inch)
.TP
.B 832
Anderson Jacobson 832 terminal
.TP
.B 8510 
C.ITOH printer
.TP
.B tn300
GE Terminet 300 terminal
.TP
.B X
printers equipped with TX print train
.TP
.B lp
generic name for printers that can underline and tab.  \f3lp\f1
is the default device for 
.IR mm .
All text sent to
.B lp 
requiring reverse linefeeds, such as those having tables, must
be processed with
.IR col (1),
invoked with 
.IR mm 's
.B \-c
option.  
.PP
If you do not use this option,
.I mm
uses the value of the shell variable
.B $TERM
from the environment
(see
.IR environ (5))
as the value of
.I tty_type
if
.B $TERM
is set; otherwise,
.I mm
uses
.B 450
as the value of
.IR tty_type .
If you specify several terminal types, the last one takes precedence.
.RE
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-12
indicates that the document is to be produced in 12-pitch.
You may use this option when 
.SM
.B $TERM
is set to one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
and
.BR 450 .
(You must manually set the pitch switch on the
.SM DASI
300 and 300s terminals to
.B 12
if you use this option).
.TP
.B \-c
causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR col ;
note that
.I col
is invoked automatically by
.I mm\^
unless
.I tty_type
is one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
.BR 37 ,
.BR 4000a ,
.BR 382 ,
and
.BR X .
.TP
.B \-e
Causes
.B mm\^
to invoke
.BR neqn ;
also causes
.B neqn
to read the
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
file (see
.BR eqnchar (5)).
.TP
.B \-t
Causes
.B mm\^
to invoke
.IR tbl (1).
.TP
.B \-E
Invokes the
.B \-e
option of
.IR nroff .
.PD
.PP
As an example (assuming that 
the shell variable
.SM
.B $TERM
is set in the environment to
.BR 450 ),
the two command lines below are equivalent:
.RS
.PP
mm \|\-t \|\-rC3 \|\-12 \|\f2 files\f1
.br
tbl \f2files \||\| nroff \|\-mm \|\-T450\-12 \|\-h \|\-rC3\f1
.RE
.PP
.B mm\^
reads the standard input
when you specify
.B \-
instead of any 
.IR files .
(Mentioning other files together with
.B \-
leads to undesired results.)
This option allows you to use
.B mm\^
as a filter, for example:
.PP
.RS
cat \|\f2files\f1 \||\| mm \|\-
.RE
.PP
.SH HINTS
.PD 0
.TP 5
1.
.I Mm\^
invokes
.I nroff
with the
.B \-h
flag.
With this flag,
.I nroff
assumes that the terminal has tabs set
every 8 character positions.
.TP
2.
Use the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I nroff
to specify ranges of pages to be output.
Note, however, that if you invoke
.IR mm ,
with
one or more of the
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-t ,
and
.B \-
options,
.I together\^
with the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I nroff
you may cause a harmless ``broken pipe'' diagnostic
if you do not specify the last page of the document in
.IR list .
.TP
3.
If you use the
.B \-s
option of
.I nroff
(to stop between pages of output),
use line-feed (rather than return or new-line)
to restart the output.
The
.B \-s
option of
.I nroff
does not work with the
.B \-c
option of
.IR mm ,
or if
.I mm\^
automatically invokes
.I col
(see
.B \-c
option above).
.TP
4.
If you lie to
.I mm\^
about the kind of terminal its output will be printed on,
you will get (often subtle) garbage;
however, if you are redirecting output into a file, use the
.B \-T37
option, and then use the appropriate terminal filter when you actually print that file.
.PD
.br
.ne 4
.SH FILES
/usr/pub/terminal	list of supported terminals
.SH SEE ALSO
checkmm(1), col(1), env(1), eqn(1), greek(1), mmt(1), mvt(1), neqn(1), nroff(1), tbl(1),
profile(4), mm(5), term(5).
.PP
The section entitled ``mm'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench User's Guide\f1.
.PP
The section entitled ``mm'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench Reference Manual\f1.
