'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MMT 1
.SH NAME
mmt \- typeset documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mmt
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is similar to
.IR mm (1),
except that it typesets its input via
.IR troff (1),
as opposed to formatting it via
.IR nroff (1);
.I mmt\^
uses
the
.B mm
macro package.
There are options to specify
preprocessing by
.IR tbl (1)
and/or
.IR pic (1)
and/or
.IR eqn (1)
and/or
.IR grap (1) .
The proper pipelines and the
required arguments and flags for
.I troff
and
for
the macro packages
are generated, depending on the options selected.
.PP
.I Options\^
specific to 
.B mmt
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags (e.g.,
.BR \-rC3 )
that you give
.B mmt
are passed
to
.IR troff .
You can put the options in any order,
but they must appear before the
.I files\^
arguments.
If you give no arguments, 
these commands
print a list of their options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B \-e
invokes
.IR eqn ;
also causes
.I eqn
to read the
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
file (see
.IR eqnchar (5)).
.TP
.B \-t
invokes
.IR tbl .
.TP
.B \-p
Invokes
.IR pic .
.TP
.B \-g
invokes
.IR grap , 
which in turn calls
.IR pic .
.TP
.BI \-T tty_type
creates output for 
typesetter
.I tty_type
(see
.IR troff (1)).
.TP
.BI \-D dest
directs the output to \f2troff\f1 device \f2dest\f1 (see \f2troff\f1(1)).
Supported values for 
.I dest
are:
.B 4014
(TEKTRONIX 4014 terminal via the
.IR tc (1)
filter); and
.B i10
(Imagen Imprint-10 laser printer via
.IR di10 (1)
filter.)
.TP
.B \-z
Invokes no output filter
to process or redirect the output of
.IR troff .
.PD
.PP
.B mmt
reads the standard input
when you specify
.B \-
instead of any 
.IR files .
.SH HINT
Use the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I troff
to specify ranges of pages to be output.
Note, however, that if you call
.B mmt
with one or more of the
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-g ,
and
.B \-
options,
together with the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I troff
you may cause a harmless ``broken pipe'' diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.SH SEE ALSO
eqn(1), grap(1), mm(1), mvt(1), pic(1), tbl(1), tc(1), troff(1),
eqnchar(5), mm(5).
.PP
The section entitled ``mm'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench User's Guide\f1.
.\"	%W% of %G%
