'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MVT 1
.SH NAME
mvt \- typeset view graphs and slides
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mvt
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is similar to
.IR mmt (1),
except that it typesets its input with the
.B mv
macro package for view graphs and slides.
.B mvt
has options to specify
preprocessing by
.IR tbl (1)
and/or
.IR pic (1)
and/or
.IR eqn (1)
and/or
.IR grap (1) .
The proper pipelines and the
required arguments and flags for
.IR troff (1)
and
for
the macro packages
are generated, depending on the options selected.
.PP
.I Options\^
specific to 
.B mvt
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags that you give
.B mvt
are passed
to
.IR troff .
Options can occur in any order,
but they must appear before any
.I files\^
arguments.
If you give no arguments, 
.B mvt
prints a list of its options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B \-e
invokes
.IR eqn ;
also causes
.I eqn
to read the
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
file (see
.IR eqnchar (5)).
.TP
.B \-t
invokes
.IR tbl .
.TP
.B \-p
Invokes
.IR pic .
.TP
.B \-g
invokes
.IR grap , 
which in turn calls
.IR pic .
.TP
.BI \-T tty_type
creates output for 
typesetter
.I tty_type
(see
.IR troff (1)).
.TP
.BI \-D dest
directs the output to \f2troff\f1 device \f2dest\f1 (see \f2troff\f1(1)).
Supported values for 
.I dest
are:
.B 4014
(TEKTRONIX 4014 terminal via the
.IR tc (1)
filter).
.TP
.B \-z
Invokes no output filter
to process or redirect the output of
.IR troff (1).
.PD
.PP
.B mvt
reads the standard input
when you specify
.B \-
instead of any 
.IR files .
.SH HINT
Use the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I troff
to specify ranges of pages to be output.
Note, however, that if you call
.B mvt
with one or more of the
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-g
and
.B \-
options,
together with the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I troff
you may cause a harmless ``broken pipe'' diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.SH SEE ALSO
eqn(1), grap(1), mmt(1), pic(1), tbl(1), tc(1), troff(1),
eqnchar(5), mv(5).
.PP
The section entitled ``mv'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench User's Guide\f1.
.\"	%W% of %G%
