'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NDX 1
.SH NAME
ndx \- create a subject-page index for a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3ndx\f1 [ subfile ] "formatter command line"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR ndx ,
given a list of subjects
.RI ( subfile ),
searches a specified document and writes a subject-page index
to the standard output.
.PP
.I subfile
is the list of subjects to be included in the index.  Each subject
must begin on a new line and have the following format:
.RS
word1 [word2 ...] [, word2 ...] [, wordk ...]
.RE
.PP
For example:
.RS
.nf
printed circuit boards
arrays
arrays, dynamic change
Smith, W.P.
printed circuit boards, channel-oriented multi-layer
Aranoff
University of Illinois
PL/1
.RE
.fi
.PP
The subject must start in column 1.
.PP
The syntax for the 
.I formatter command line 
is
.RS
.IR "formatter " "[ " "options " "] " "\^file ..."
.RE
.PP
It is the command that will be used to create the final form of
the document.  
The
.I formatter must be one of
.IR troff , \0nroff , \0mm ,
or
.I mmt
The
.I options
are those that will be given to the formatter
in printing the final form of the document, and are
necessary to determine the correct page numbers for subjects
as they located in the document.
.I ndx
does not actually cause the final version of the document to be
printed.  The author must create the document separately.  The
indexer, of course, should not be used until the document is complete
and no further changes are expected.
The following are examples of valid formatter command
lines:
.RS
.nf
mm \-Tlp\f2  file ...\f1
nroff \-mm \-Tlp \-rW60\f2  file ...\f1
troff \-rB2 \-Taps \-r01.5i\f2  file ...\f1
.fi
.RE
.PP
For more information on the formatter command line, see
.IR mm (1),
.IR mmt (1),
.IR nroff (1),
and
.IR troff (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.RS
ndx subfile "nroff \-mm \-rW70 file" > indexfile
.RE
would produce a subject-page index for the document 
.I file  
and take its subject for the list,
.IR subfile .
The page numbers would correspond to the document produced by 
.RS
nroff \-mm \-rW70 file
.RE
.PP
The command
.RS
ndx subfile "mm \-rW60 \-rN2 \-rO0 ch1 ch2 ch3" > indexfile
.RE
would produce a subject-page index for the documents 
.IR ch1 , 
.IR ch2 , 
.IR ch3 .
The page number would correspond to the documents produced by
.RS
mm \-rW60 \-rN2 \-rO0 ch1 ch2 ch3
.RE
The command
.RS
ndx subfile "troff \-rB2 \-rW5i \-rO1.5i \-mm file" > indexfile
.RE
would produce a subject-page index for the document
.I file
and the page numbers would correspond to the document produced by
.RS
troff \-rB2 \-rW5i \-rO1.5i \-mm file
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
mm(1),
mmt(1),
nroff(1),
subj(1),
troff(1).
