'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NROFF 1
.SH NAME
nroff \- format or typeset text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nroff
[ options ] [ files ] [
.B \||\|
printer ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nroff\^
formats text contained in
.I files\^
(standard input by default)
for printing on typewriter-like devices
and line printers.
.PP
An argument consisting of a minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The
.IR options ,
which may appear in any order, but must appear
before the
.IR files ,
are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 
.BI \-o list\^
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the
.I list\^
of numbers and ranges, separated by commas.
A range
.IB N \- M\^
means pages
.I N\^
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.BI \- N\^
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IB N \-
means
from
.I N\^
to the end.
(See
.SM
.I BUGS\^
below.)
.TP
.BI \-n N\^
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s N\^
Stop every
.I N\^
pages.
.I Nroff\^
will halt
.I after\^
every
.I N\^
pages (default
.IR N =1)
to allow paper loading or
changing, and will resume upon receipt of a line-feed or new-line
(new-lines do not work in pipelines, e.g., with
.IR mm (1)).
This option does not work if the output of
.I nroff\^
is piped through
.IR col (1).
When
.I nroff\^
halts between pages, an
.SM ASCII
.SM
.B BEL
is sent to the terminal.
.TP
.BI \-r aN\^
Set register
.I a\^
(which must have a one-character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after
.I files\^
are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B \&.rd
request.
.TP
.B \-z
Print only messages generated by
.B \&.tm
(terminal message)
requests.
.TP
.BI
\-m name
Prepend to the input
.I files
the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name.
.TP
.BI \-T tty_type
Prepare output for specified terminal.
Known
.IR tty_type
types are
.RS
.TP p
.B 2631
Hewlett-Packard 2631 printer in regular mode
.TP
.B 2631\-c
Hewlett-Packard 2631 printer in compressed mode
.TP
.B 2631\-e
Hewlett Packard 2631 printer in expanded mode
.TP
.B 300
DASI-300 printer
.TP
.B 300-12
DASI-300 terminal set to 12-pitch (12 characters per inch)
.TP
.B 300s
DASI-300s printer (300S is a synonym)
.TP
.B 300s-12
DASI-300s printer set to 12-pitch (12 characters per inch) (300S is a synonym)
.TP
.B 37
Teletype Model 37 terminal
.TP
.B 382
DTC-382
.TP
.B 4000a
Trendata 4000a terminal (4000A is a synonym)
.TP
.B 450
DASI-450 (Diablo Hyterm) printer
.TP
.B 450-12 
DASI-450 terminal set to 12-pitch (12 characters per inch)
.TP
.B 832
Anderson Jacobson 832 terminal
.TP
.B 8510 
C.ITOH printer
.TP
.B lp
generic name for printers that can underline and tab.  (all
text using reverse line feeds, such as those having tables, that
is sent to
.B lp
must be processed with
.BR col ).
.TP
.B tn300
GE Terminet 300 terminal
.TP
.B X
printers equipped with TX print train
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using the full resolution of the particular terminal.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every
8 nominal character widths.
.TP
.BI \-u n\^
Set the emboldening factor (number of character overstrikes) for the
third font position (bold) to
.IR n ,
or to zero if
.I n\^
is missing.
.PD
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fP\(**\ \ 'u
.PD 0
.PP
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fP\(**	pointers to standard macro files
.PP
/usr/lib/macros/\(**	standard macro files
.PP
/usr/lib/nterm/\(**	terminal driving tables for
.I nroff\^
.PP
/usr/pub/terminals	list of supported terminals
.PD
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
eqn(1), tbl(1), mm(5),
col(1), greek(1), mm(1).
.PP
The section entitled ``nroff'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench User's Guide\f1.
.PP
The section entitled ``nroff/troff'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench Reference Manual\f1.
.PD
.SH BUGS
.I Nroff
believes in Eastern Standard Time;
as a result, depending on the time of the year and on your local time zone,
the date that
.I nroff
generates may be off by one day from your idea of what the date is.
.PP
When
.I nroff
is used with the
.BI \-o list\^
option inside a pipeline
(e.g., with one or more of
.IR eqn (1)
and
.IR tbl (1)),
it may cause a harmless ``broken pipe'' diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.\"	%W% of %G%
