'\"macro stdmacro
.ds PS P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH PS4014 1
.SH NAME
ps4014 \- convert a Tektronix 4014 files to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B ps4014
[
.B \-RCNm
] [
.BR \-p outfile
] [
.BR \-l left,bottom
] [
.BR \-s width,height
] [
.BR \-S width
] [ files ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I ps4014
reads in a Tektronix 4014-format file and converts it to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format
for printing on a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 printer.  If no
.I file
is specified, the standard input is used.
The resulting P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 file may be directed to the standard output
or to a named file.
.sp
The possible options are:
.TP
.BI \-p " outfile"
causes the P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 file to be written to the named file rather than
the standard output.
.PP
The following parameters affect the size, placement and orientation
of the image on the printed page.  By default, the 4014 image is scaled to
occupy nearly the whole page in a landscape orientation.
.TP
.BI \-l " left,bottom"
specifies the location on the printed page of the bottom, left corner of the 
converted raster image.  The values
.I left
and
.I bottom
are the distances (in inches) from the bottom, left corner of the printed 
page to the bottom, left corner of the image.
.TP
.BI \-s " width,height"
Specifies the size of the converted raster image on the printed page.
.I Width
and 
.I height
are the dimensions (in inches) of the resulting image on the printed page.
.TP
.BI \-S " width"
allows you to scale the image without distoring its shape.  
.I Width
specifies the width, in inches, of the resulting image on the printed page.
The height of the image is computed to maintain the same ratio of height
to width on the output image as on the input raster-format file.
.TP
.B \-R
rotates the image 90 degrees on the page for portrait orientation.
The default is landscape orientation.
.PP
The following parameters specify values for 4014 hardware options that affect
the interpretation of 4014 commands.
.TP
.B \-C
causes an carriage return to move the pen position to the left margin but not
down to the next line.  By default, a carriage return command moves the 
pen down to the next line and over to the left margin.  
.TP
.B \-N
causes line feed to move the pen position down to the next line 
but not left to the left margin. By default, a line feed command moves the 
pen down to the next line and over to the left margin.  
.TP
.B \-m
enables the "Margin 2" mode for the 4014.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP PSLIBDIR
path name of a directory to use instead of
.B /usr/lib/ps 
for the
.I ps4014 
prologue.
.SH "FILES"
.TP 2.2i
/usr/lib/ps/ps4014.pro
default prologue file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lp, psplot(1).
.br
Tektronix 4014 documentation.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH "NOTES"
P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.br
Tektronix is a registered trademark of Tektronix, Inc.
