'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PSDIT 1
.SH NAME
psdit \- convert troff intermediate format to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psdit
[
.BR \-F fontdir
] [
.BR \-p prologue
] [
.BR \-o list
] [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I psdit
translates a
.I file
created by device-independent
.IR troff (1)
to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format for printing on a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 printer.
If no
.I file
is mentioned, the standard input is used.
The P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 file is sent to the standard output.
The options are:
.TP
.BI \-F " fontdir"
take font information from
.I fontdir
instead of the default (see below).
.TP
.BI \-p " prologue"
use the contents of
.I prologue
instead of the default P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 prologue (see below).
.TP
.BI \-o " list"
prints pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The list contains single numbers
.I N
and ranges
.IB N1 \- N2.
A missing 
.I N1
means the lowest-numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest.
.\" NOTE: As of 3.6, eqn doesn't accept -m,-r nor pic -T576.  An SCR has been
.\" submitted to make these be the defaults for these programs.
.\"
.\".PP
.\".B Note:
.\"the input for 
.\".I psdit
.\"should be prepared with the corresponding
.\".B \-Tpsc
.\"option of
.\".RI troff , 
.\".IR pic ,
.\"etc.
.\".br
.\".I eqn
.\"should be run with the flags
.\".B \-r576
.\"and
.\".BR \-m2
.\"to produce suitable output.  
.\".br
.\".I pic
.\"should be run with the 
.\".B \-D
.\"flag.
.\"With 
.\".B DWB
.\".IR pic ,
.\"use
.\".B \-T576
.\"to set the correct resolution.
.PP
.I psdit
allows for users to cause 
.I troff
to include arbitrary P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 code in the generated P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 file.
.I psdit 
recognizes the heretofore undefined ``%'' command in the
troff intermediate file format to signal the start of raw P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
to be placed 
.I 
as is
in the the output file.  Everthing between (but not including)
the percent sign and a line containing a single period (``.'') will
be placed in the generated P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 output.  This P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 is not insulated
from the 
.I troff
coordinate system or the state of the generated P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2. However, two functions
are defined in the prologue so that user's may insulate themselves if they
so desire.  The 
.B PB
function (for \f2picture begin\fP) will perform a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 
.B save 
operation, translate the P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 coordinate system to 
.I troff's
idea of the current position on the page, and change the scale and
orienation of the coordinate system axes to be the standard P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 72 units
per inch.  The
.B PE
macro (for \f2picture end\fP) will end this protected environment.
.LP
Several methods may be employed to incorporated such included P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
into the troff intermediate file.  The 
.BR \&.cf ,
.BR \&.sy ,
and 
\f3\\\^!\f1
.I troff
commands may be useful.
For example, the following sequence may appear in \f2troff\fP input:
.PP
.RS
(usual troff input)
.br
\\\^!%PB
.br
\&.cf mypic.ps
.br
\\\^!PE
.br
\\\^!.
.br
(more regular troff input)
.RE
.PP
to include 
.I mypic.ps
as an illustration.  This facility is both powerful and useful,
but indiscriminate inclusion of badly-behaving P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 code may be
dangerous to your document's health.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP \w'PSLIBDIR\0\0\0'u
PSLIBDIR
path name of a directory to use instead of
.B /usr/lib/ps 
for 
.I psdit 
prologue.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/font/devpsc/\(**\0\0\0'u
/usr/lib/font/devpsc/\(**	\f2troff\f1 default description files for P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 virtual device.
.br
/usr/lib/ps/psdit.pro	default P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 prologue.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
psroff(1), troff(1), lp(1), troff(5).
.br
\f2A Typesetter-independent TROFF\f1 Brian W. Kernighan, Bell Laboratories 1982
.br
.I
Documenter's Workbench
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH BUGS
.\" NOTE: As of 3.6, eqn doesn't accept -m,-r nor pic -T576.  An SCR has been
.\" submitted to make these be the defaults for these programs.
.\"
.\"The versions of 
.\".I eqn
.\"and 
.\".I pic
.\"distributed with ditroff (from AT&T) have the device names compiled in
.\"(so much for device independence!).  They should just read the device
.\"description file for the information they need.  You must be careful
.\"to know which version of 
.\".I eqn 
.\"you are running or you will get undesirable results.
.\".PP
The B-splines generated by
.I troff
are drawn with an approximation.  The functions 
.B D~
and 
.B D~~
in the prologue need a little work.
.SH NOTES
P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.br
Documenter's Workbench is a trademark of AT&T Technologies.
