'\"macro stdmacro
.ds PS P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH PSROFF 1
.SH NAME
psroff \- troff to a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psroff
[ 
.B \-t
] [ troff options ] [ spooler options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I psroff
is a shell script that runs
.IR troff (1)
in an environment to produce output on a P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 printer.
It uses
.IR psdit (1)
to convert
.I troff
intermediate output to P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 format, and spools this for printing.  
If no 
.I files
are specified, the standard input is used.
.PP
In addition to the standard 
.IR troff options ,
the following option is understood by 
.IR psroff :
.TP
.B \-t 
sends the P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 output to the standard output, 
rather than spooling it to a printer.
Note that this overrides the meaning of the 
.I troff
.B \-t 
option; if you want that, run 
.I troff
directly.
.PP
The following 
.I spooler options 
are passed on to
.IR lp (1).
.TP
.BI \-d dest
causes the output to be sent to the named destination.
.TP
.BI \-n n
causes 
.I n 
copies of the output to be produced.  The default is one.
.TP
.B \-h
suppress the printing of the job burst page.
.TP
.B \-r
don't page-reverse the output.
.TP
.BI \-s
suppress messages from 
.IR lp .
.TP
.BI \-m
send mail after files have been printed.
.TP
.BI \-w
write to user's terminal after files have been printed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "LPDEST" \w'LPDEST\0\0\0'u
the name of a printer (as in the 
.B \-d
option) for 
.I lp
to use.  If no 
.B \-d 
option is specified,
.I lp
will use this printer.  If neither
.B \-d
nor LPDEST is set,
.I psroff
will spool to a printer class named ``PostScript''.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/font/devpsc/\(**\0\0\0'u
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.\(**	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/font/devpsc/\(**	\f2troff\f1 description files for P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 virtual device.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lp(1), troff(1), psdit(1), eqn(1), tbl(1), pic(1), refer(1).
.br
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff User's Manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I A TROFF Tutorial
and
.I A Typesetter-independent TROFF
.br
.I
Documenter's Workbench
.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.\" NOTE: As of 3.6, eqn doesn't accept -m,-r nor pic -T576.  An SCR has been
.\" submitted to make these be the defaults for these programs.
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"The 
.\".I eqn
.\"supplied with 
.\".I troff
.\"is different from the original.  Use the options 
.\".B \-r576
.\".B \-m2
.\"for best results.  Other programs (e.g.,
.\".IR pic )
.\"distributed with 
.\".SM DWB
.\"have the device names compiled in (so much for device independence!).
.\"They should just have a 
.\".B \-T
.\"option and read the device description file for the information they need.
.\"Use
.\".B \-T576
.\"with the
.\".I pic
.\"distributed with 
.\".SM DWB.
.SH NOTES
P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2 is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.br
Documenter's Workbench is a trademark of AT&T Technologies.
