'\" t
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds T \(->
.if t .ds ^ \^\s+4\v@.3m@^\v@-.3m@\s-4\^
.if n .ds ^ ^
.TH TBL 1
.SH NAME
tbl \- prepares tables for nroff or troff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tbl
[
.B \-TX
] 
.\"[\-\^\- ]
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tbl\^
is a preprocessor that formats tables for
.IR nroff (1)
or
.IR troff (1).
.B tbl
assumes that lines between the
.SM
.B \&.TS
and
.SM
.B \&.TE
command lines describe tables, thus they
are re-formatted;
lines outside these command lines are copied to the standard output.
(
.B tbl
does not alter the
.SM
.B \&.TS
and
.SM
.B \&.TE
command lines.)
.PP
Follow
.SM
.B \&.TS
with global options.
The available global options are:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B center
centers the table (default is left-adjust);
.TP
.B expand
makes the table as wide as the current line length;
.TP
.B box
encloses the table in a box;
.TP
.B doublebox
encloses the table in a double box;
.TP
.B allbox
encloses each item of the table in a box;
.TP
.BI "tab (" x )
uses the character
.I x\^
instead of a tab to separate items in a line of input data.
.TP
.BI "linesize (" n )
sets lines or rules (e.g. from \f3box\f1) in \f2n\f2-point type
.RE
.PD
.PP
End the global options with a semi-colon
.RB ( ; ).
.PP
After global options come lines describing the format of each line of the table.
Each such format line describes one line of the table itself, except that the
last format line
(which you must end with a period)
describes
.I all\^
remaining lines of the table.
A single key-letter describes each column of each line of the table.
You may follow this key letter with specifiers that determine 
the font and point size
of the corresponding item,
that indicate where vertical bars are to appear between columns,
that determine
column width, inter-column spacing, etc.
The available key-letters are:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B c
centers item within the column;
.TP
.B r
right-adjusts item within the column;
.TP
.B l
left-adjusts item within the column;
.TP
.B n
numerically adjusts item in the column:
units positions of numbers are aligned vertically;
.TP
.B s
spans previous item on the left into this column;
.TP
.B a
centers longest line in this column and then
left-adjusts all other lines in
this column with respect to that centered line;
.TP
.B \*^
spans down previous entry in this column;
.TP
.B \|_
replaces this entry with a horizontal line;
.TP
.B =
replaces this entry with a double horizontal line.
.RE
.PD
.PP
The characters
.B B
and
.B I
stand for the bold and italic fonts, respectively;
the character \(bv indicates a vertical line between columns.
.PP
The format lines are followed by lines containing the actual data for the
table, followed finally by
.SM
.BR \&.TE .
Within such data lines, data items are normally separated by tab characters.
.PP
If a data line consists of only
.B _
or
.BR = ,
a single or double line, respectively, is drawn
across the table at that point;
if a
.I "single item\^"
in a data line consists of only
.B _
or
.BR = ,
then that item is replaced by a single or double line.
.PP
Full details of all these and other features of
.I tbl\^
are given in the reference manual cited below.
.PP
The
.SM
.B \-TX
option forces
.I tbl\^
to use only full vertical line motions, making the output
more
suitable for devices that cannot generate partial vertical
line
motions (for example, line printers).
.PP
If you do not specify 
.IR files , " tbl"
reads the standard input.
.I tbl
will also read the standard input if it encounters
.B \-
as a
.I file
argument.
When 
.I tbl\^
is used with
.IR eqn (1)
or
.IR neqn (1),
put it
first to minimize the volume
of data passed through
pipes.
.SH EXAMPLE
If we let \*T represent a tab (which should
be typed as a genuine tab),
then
the input:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&\f3.\fPTS
center \|box \|\f3;\fP
cB \|s \|s
cI \|\(bv \|cI \|s
\*^ \|\(bv \|c \|c
l \|\(bv \|n \|n \|\f3.\fP
Household \|Population
\f3_\fP
Town\*THouseholds
\*TNumber\*TSize
\f3=\fP
Bedminster\*T789\*T3\f3.\fP26
Bernards \|Twp\f3.\fP\*T3087\*T3\f3.\fP74
Bernardsville\*T2018\*T3\f3.\fP30
Bound \|Brook\*T3425\*T3\f3.\fP04
Bridgewater\*T7897\*T3\f3.\fP81
Far \|Hills\*T240\*T3\f3.\fP19
\&\f3.\fPTE
.fi
.RE
.PP
yields:
.PP
.TS
center box ;
cB s s
cI | cI s
^ | c c
l | n n .
Household Population
_
Town	Households
	Number	Size
=
Bedminster	789	3.26
Bernards Twp.	3087	3.74
Bernardsville	2018	3.30
Bound Brook	3425	3.04
Bridgewater	7897	3.81
Far Hills	240	3.19
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
eqn(1), mm(1), mmt(1), mvt(1), nroff(1), troff(1),
mm(5) and
mv(5).
.PP
The section entitled ``tbl'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench User's Guide\f1.
.PP
The section entitled ``tbl'' in the \f2Documenter's Workbench Reference Manual\f1.
.SH BUGS
.br
See
.SM
.I BUGS\^
under
.IR nroff (1).
.\"	%W% of %G%
