'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TC 1 
.SH NAME
tc \- troff output interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc
[
.B \-t
]
[
.BR \-o list
]
[
.B \-a 
n ]
[
.B \-e
]
[
files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tc
interprets its
input (standard input default)
as output from
.IR troff (1).
The standard output of
.I tc
is intended for a \s-1TEKTRONIX\s+1 4015 (a 4014 terminal
with
.SM ASCII
and
.SM APL
character sets).
The various typesetter sizes are mapped into the 4014's
four sizes;
the entire
.SM TROFF
character set is drawn using the 4014's
character generator,
using overstruck combinations where necessary,
producing an altogether displeasing effect.
Typical usage:
.IP "" 15
troff [ \f2options\f1 ] files \||\ tc
.PP
At the end of each page
.I tc
waits for a new-line (empty line) from the keyboard before
continuing on to the next page.
In this wait state,
the following commands are recognized:
.TP
.BI ! cmd
sends
.I cmd
to the shell.
.TP
.B e
inverts state of the screen erase
.RI ( tc ).
.TP
.BI \- n
skips backward
.I n
pages.
.TP
.B a 
.I n
sets the aspect ratio to
.IR n .
.TP
.B ?
prints list of available options.
.PP
The command line options are:
.TP
.B  \-t
Do not wait between pages (for directing output into a file).
.TP
.BI \-o list
Prints only the pages enumerated in
.IR list .
The list consists of pages and page ranges (e.g., 5-17)
separated by commas.  
The range
.I n\-
goes from
.I n
to the end;
the range
.I \-n
goes from the beginning to and including
page
.IR n.
.TP
.B \-a 
.I n
Set the aspect ratio to
.IR n ;
default is 1.5.
.TP
.B \-e
Do not erase before each page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
4014(1),
nroff(1),
troff(1).
.SH BUGS
Font distinctions are lost.
.br
It needs a
.B \-w
option to wait for input to arrive.
.\"	%W% of %G%
