.TH clippnt  3 "R1c" "Silicon Graphics"
.SH NAME
.I clippnt
- clip an array of points
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "clippnt(mask, n, pretrans, postrans, index)"
.B "String mask; "
.B "long n; "
.B "Coord pretrans[][3], postrans[][4];"
.B "Boolean index[];"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine clippn(mask, n, pretra, postra, index)"
.B "character*(*) mask"
.B "integer n"
.B "real pretra(3,n), postra(4,n)"
.B "logical index(n)"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure clippnt(mask: String; n: integer; "
.B "	var pretrans: Coord3array;"
.B "	var postrans: Coord4array;"
.B "	var index: Boolarray);"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Clippnt
selectively enables a subset of the six
clipping planes. \f3Mask\f1 is a string of characters specifying which clipping
planes are enabled.
This string is chosen from `l', `r', `b', `t', `n', and `f', which
represent the left, right, bottom, top, near, and far
clipping planes.  \f3Mask\f1 can 
name from one to six planes, in
any order. 
.PP
\f2Clippnt\f1 takes an array of \f3n\f1 points 
in \f3pretrans\f1.  
The transformed
and partially clipped points are returned in \f3postrans\f1 such that if
\f3pretrans[i]\f1 was not clipped out, \f3postrans[i]\f1 
is the transformed value.
.PP
\f3Index\f1 is an array of boolean values that show 
which entries in \f3postrans\f1
contain valid data.  If \f3index[i]\f1=FALSE, \f3pretrans[i]\f1 
was clipped out and
\f3postrans[i]\f1 is undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I clipline, clippoly, screenpnt, transform
.SH NOTE
This command can only be used in immediate mode.
