.TH defrasterfont 3 "R1c" "Silicon Graphics"
.SH NAME
.I defrasterfont
- define a raster font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "defrasterfont(n, ht, nc, chars, nr, raster)"
.B "short n, ht, nc, nr;"
.B "Fontchar chars[];"
.B "Byte raster[];"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine defras(n, ht, nc, chars, nr, raster)"
.B "integer*2 n, ht, nc, chars(4,nc), nr"
.B "character raster(nr)"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure defrasterfont(n, ht, nc: Short; var chars: Fntchrarray;"
.B "	nr: Short; var raster: Fontraster);"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Defrasterfont
defines a raster font and has
six arguments.  The first two are \f3n\f1, an index into
the font table, and \f3ht\f1, an integer specifying the maximum 
height, in pixels,
of characters in the font.  The index \f3n\f1 becomes the font's
internal name.  \f3Nc\f1 gives the number of characters in
the font and thus the number of elements in the \f3chars\f1 array. 
\f3Chars\f1
contains a description of each character in the font.  The description
includes the height and width of the character in pixels, the offsets from the
character origin to the lower left corner of this character's
bounding box, an offset
into the array of rasters, 
and the amount to add to the current character \f3x\f1 position after
drawing the character.
\f3Raster\f1 is an array of \f3nr\f1 bytes of bitmap information.
It is a one-dimensional array of mask bytes, ordered left to right and then
bottom to top.  Mask bits are left-justified in the character's bounding
box. 
.PP
To replace a raster font, define the new one to have the 
same index as the old one.  To
delete a raster font, define a font with no characters with the same index.
That is, call 
.I "defrasterfont(n, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)."
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I charstr, defobjfont, font
.SH NOTE
This command can only be used in immediate mode.
