.TH greset  3 "R1c" "Silicon Graphics"
.SH NAME
.I greset
- reset all global attributes to their initial values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "greset()"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine greset"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure greset;"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2greset\f1 command returns
the following global state variables to their initial values, and 
can be called at any time.
.TS
center box;
lb | lb
l | l.
state variable	initial value
_
available bitplanes	all bitplanes\(dg
color	undefined
color map mode	one map
cursor	0 (arrow)\(dd
display mode	single buffer
font	0 \(dg\(dg
linestyle	0 (solid)
linestyle backup	off
linewidth	1 pixel
picking size	10\&\(mu\&10 pixels
reset linestyle	on
RGB color	undefined
RGB writemask	undefined
texture	0 (solid)
viewport	entire screen
writemask	all planes enabled\(dg
zmax	1023
zmin	0
.TE
.RS
\(dg  If there are more than three bitplane boards installed, 
available planes is set to twelve.
.br
\(dd  The color and writemask of the cursor are set to 1.
.br
\(dg\(dg Rasterfont 0 is a Helvetica-like font.
.RE
.PP
In addition, \f2greset\f1
puts a two-dimensional orthographic projection transformation on 
the matrix stack with left, right, bottom, and top set to the
boundaries of the screen.  It also
turns the cursor on, ties it to 
.I MOUSEX
and
.I MOUSEY,
and unqueues
all buttons, valuators, and the keyboard.
Each button is set to 
.I FALSE
and untied from valuators.
Each valuator is set to 
.I XMAXSCREEN/2;
the range is 
.I 0..XMAXSCREEN.
.I MOUSEY
is an exception.  It is set to 
.I YMAXSCREEN/2
and has range
.I 0..YMAXSCREEN.
.PP
\f2Greset\f1 also defines every entry in the color map, as follows:
.TS 
center allbox;
cb | cb | cb s s
cb | cb | cb s s
cb | lb | c|c|c
c | l | c | c | c .
index	name	RGB value
\^	\^	_
\^	\^	red	green	blue
=
0	BLACK	0	0	0
1	RED	255	0	0
2	GREEN	0	255	0
3	YELLOW	255	255	0
4	BLUE	0	0	255
5	MAGENTA	255	0	255
6	CYAN	0	255	255
7	WHITE	255	255	255
all others	unnamed	0	0	0
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I ginit
.SH NOTE
This command can only be used in immediate mode.
