'\"macro stdmacro
.TH BACK 6
.SH NAME
back \- the game of backgammon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/back
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Back\^
is a program which provides a partner
for the game
of backgammon.
It is designed to play at three different
levels of skill, one of which you must select.
In addition to selecting the opponent's level,
you may also indicate that you would like to roll your
own dice during your turns (for the superstitious players).
You will also be given the opportunity to move first.
The practice of each player rolling one die for the first
move is not incorporated.
.PP
The points are numbered 1\-24, with 1 being white's
extreme inner table, 24 being brown's inner table,
0 being the bar for removed white pieces and 25 the bar
for brown.
For details on how moves are expressed, type
.B y
when
.I back\^
asks ``Instructions?''
at the beginning of the game.
When
.I back\^
first asks ``Move?'', type
.B ?
to see a list of move options other than
entering your numerical move.
.PP
When the game is finished,
.I back\^
will ask you if you want the log.
If you respond with
.BR y ,
.I back\^
will attempt to append to or create a file
.B back.log
in the current directory.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/games/lib/backrules \ \ \ 'u
/usr/games/lib/backrules	rules file
.br
/tmp/b\(**	log temp file
.br
back.log	log file
.SH BUGS
The only level really worth playing is
``expert'', and it only plays the forward game.
.PP
.I Back\^
will complain loudly if you attempt
to make too
.I many\^
moves in a turn,
but will become very silent if you
make too
.IR few .
.PP
Doubling is not implemented.
.\"	@(#)back.6	5.1 of 10/18/83
