'\"macro stdmacro
.TH QUIZ 6
.SH NAME
quiz \- test your knowledge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/quiz
[
.B \-i
file ] [
.B \-t
] [ category1 category2 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Quiz\^
gives associative
knowledge tests on various subjects.
It asks items chosen from
.I category1\^
and expects answers from
.IR category2 ,
or vice versa.
If no categories are specified,
.I quiz\^
gives instructions
and lists the available categories.
.PP
.I Quiz\^
tells a correct answer whenever you type
a bare new-line.
At the end of input, upon interrupt,
or when questions run out,
.I quiz\^
reports a score and terminates.
.PP
The
.B \-t
flag specifies ``tutorial'' mode,
where missed questions are repeated
later, and material is gradually introduced as you learn.
.PP
The
.B \-i
flag causes the named file to be substituted for the
default index file.
The lines of these files have the syntax:
.PP
.RS .3i
.nf
.ta \w'alternate\ \ 'u
line	=  category \f3new-line\fP \^|\^ category \f3:\fP line
category	=  alternate \^|\^ category \(bv alternate
alternate	=  empty \^|\^ alternate primary
primary	=  character \^|\^ \f3[\fP category \f3]\fP \^|\^ option
option	=  \f3{\fP category \f3}\fP
.fi
.RE
.DT
.PP
The first category on each
line of an index file names an information file.
The remaining categories specify the order and contents of
the data in each line of the
information file.
Information files have the same syntax.
Backslash
.B \e
is used as with
.IR sh (1)
to quote syntactically
significant characters or to insert transparent
new-lines into a line.
When either a question or its answer is empty,
.I quiz\^
will refrain from asking it.
.SH FILES
/usr/games/lib/quiz/index
.br
/usr/games/lib/quiz/\(**
.SH BUGS
The construct ``a\^\(bv\^ab'' doesn't work in an information
file.
Use ``a{b}''.
.\"	@(#)quiz.6	5.1 of 10/18/83
