'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TREK 6 
.SH NAME
trek \- trekkie game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/trek
[ [
.B \-a
] file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Trek
is a game of space glory and war.
Below is a summary of commands.
For complete documentation,
see
.IR Trek
by Eric Allman.
.PP
If a filename is given,
a log of the game is written onto that file.
If the
.B \-a
flag is given before the filename,
that file is appended to,
not truncated.
.PP
The game will ask you what length game
you would like.
Valid responses are \*(lqshort\*(rq, \*(lqmedium\*(rq, and \*(lqlong\*(rq.
You may also type \*(lqrestart\*(rq,
which restarts a previously saved game.
You will then be prompted for the skill,
to which you must respond
\*(lqnovice\*(rq, \*(lqfair\*(rq, \*(lqgood\*(rq, \*(lqexpert\*(rq,
\*(lqcommadore\*(rq, or \*(lqimpossible\*(rq.
You should normally start out with a novice
and work up.
.PP
In general,
throughout the game,
if you forget what is appropriate
the game will tell you what it expects
if you just type in
a question mark.
.SH "COMMAND SUMMARY"
.ie t .ds f \f3
.el .ds f \f2
.ta  \w'\*fp\f1hasers \*fm\f1anual amt1 course1 spread1 ...\ \ 'u
.nf
\*fabandon\f1	\*fca\f1pture
\*fcl\f1oak \*fu\f1p/\*fd\f1own
\*fc\f1omputer request; ...	\*fda\f1mages
\*fdestruct\f1	\*fdo\f1ck
\*fhelp\f1	\*fi\f1mpulse course distance
\*fl\f1rscan	\*fm\f1ove course distance
\*fp\f1hasers \*fa\f1utomatic amount
\*fp\f1hasers \*fm\f1anual amt1 course1 spread1 ...
\*ft\f1orpedo course [\*fy\f1es] angle/\*fn\f1o
\*fram\f1 course distance	\*fr\f1est time
\*fshell\f1	\*fsh\f1ields \*fu\f1p/\*fd\f1own
\*fs\f1rscan [\*fy\f1es/\*fn\f1o]
\*fst\f1atus	\*fterminate\f1 \*fy\f1es/\*fn\f1o
\*fu\f1ndock	\*fv\f1isual course
\*fw\f1arp warp_factor
.fi
.DT
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Allman
.\"	@(#)trek.6	5.1 of 10/18/83
