This directory contains commands used to install software updates and
options.  The commands and data files included here are part of a
specific distribution and should only be used with the distribution.
Do not use these tools with a tape other than the one from which they
were taken.  These commands and files are the "distribution tools".

NOTE: The distribution tools are fully documented in the manuals and
release notes, which should be used whenever possible.  This sketch is
provided for situations where the documentation is not available.

The file "desc" in this directory describes the software that may have
been included on the tape.  Software is broken up into units called
"images", where an image might be, for example, the standard system
update files, the demo programs, the online manual pages, the FORTRAN
option, or the TCP/IP communications option.  Each such image has a
shorthand name by which it is known to the distribution commands.  For
example, the FORTRAN option is known as "ftn".  See the "desc" file for
a list of images that might be included on the tape, and their
shorthand names.

The "toc" file in this directory contains the names of the images that
were included on the tape, and is used by the distribution commmands to
access the images on the tape.  You can examine "toc" to see the
shorthand names of the images on the tape.

To install software from this tape:

1) The machine should be running in multi-user mode, with no other
users logged in and no other user processes running.  Log in as root.

2) Read the distribution tools into the root directory.

	cd /
	rm -rf dist
	cpio -ivhmud1

3) Examine the "/dist/toc" file to determine what images are available
to you.  Bug fix images are named with a trailing "%" (e.g. "ftn%");
these are automatically included when you access the normal entry
(e.g.  "ftn"), so you should not take any specific actions to load
these images.

4) To see the increase or decrease in disk usage that will result from
reading in the images from the tape, use the "Spchk" command.  With no
command line arguments, "Spchk" assumes you will be reading all of the
images named in "toc".  If you are only going to read some of the
images in "toc", you can give their names to "Spchk" as command line
arguments.

	/dist/Spchk

		or

	/dist/Spchk upd man demos tcp           (for example)

Spchk will report an approximate projected increase or decrease in disk
usage.  If an increase is reported, make sure you have at least that
many disk blocks available, hopefully with two or three hundred to
spare.  Use "df" to find out how much space is available.  If you don't
have enough space available, delete some files you don't need, and/or
back some user files up onto tape and delete them, then run Spchk and
df again.  Do not proceed until any increase shown by Spchk will fit in
the available space shown by df.

5) Read in the images with the "Read" command.  By default, all
software from the tape will be read.  If you want to read specific
images, you can name them as command line arguments (see "Spchk"
example above).

	/dist/Read

If you prefer more feedback, use the "verbose" option, which will cause
the file names to be printed as they are read in.

	/dist/Read -v

6) Use the "Install" command to perform various housekeeping functions
once the software is read in.  You should run "Install" for each image
that was read in by the "Read" command.  Again, by default, all images
on the tape will be processed, but you can name specific images if you
wish.

	/dist/Install

7) Check the configuration files listed during the installation; you
may want to merge changes from the old or new "saved" versions of these
files into the working version.

8) Reboot the system.  The "Install" command may have asked you to run
"Install -cleanup"; if so, bring the system up multi-user, log in as
root, and type "/dist/Install -cleanup".

7) Remove the distribution tools:

	rm -rf /dist

The new software is now fully installed.
