'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TLINK LOCAL:1
.SH NAME
tlink \- clone a file tree via symbolic links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlink 
[
.B \-chnvX
] [
.B \-d 
name ] [
.B \-x 
name ] source target [ path ... ]
.SH  DESCRIPTION
.I Tlink 
creates a directory tree rooted at target identical to the
directory tree rooted at source, populating the directories under
target with symbolic links to corresponding files under source.
If optional paths are supplied after source and target, only the
sub-trees named by concatenating each path with source are linked
under target.
.PP
The 
.B \-c
(clean) option causes 
.I tlink 
to walk the target tree removing
any directory which lacks an isomorph in the source tree, any symbolic
link which does not name its non-directory isomorph in the source tree,
and any file which is not a directory or a link.
.PP
The 
.B \-d
option symbolically links a directory in the source tree into
the corresponding place in the target tree.  The link's pathname must
match the regular expression named.  Regular expressions are as
described in 
.IR regcmp (3X).  
When used with
.BR \-c ,
this option prevents symbolic links to source directories from being
cleaned.
.PP
The 
.B \-h
option creates hard rather than symbolic links, to conserve
inodes in a filesystem.
A
.I "tlink -h"
tree has the drawback that a hard link in it
may become stale (i.e. diverge from its prototype source node) if its
source is unlinked and recreated, whereas a symbolic link to the source
will always denote the same source name.
This option fails if source and target are directories in different
filesystems.
.PP
The 
.B \-n
option causes 
.I tlink 
to operate without actually constructing
a target tree.  With this option, 
.I tlink 
will traverse the source tree,
changing current directory and calling 
.IR stat (2) 
on source files.
.PP
The 
.B \-v
(verbose) option prints the name of each directory and symbolic
link created or removed (with the 
.B \-c 
option).  If a non-directory file
exists in the target tree and its source file is a directory, 
.B tlink \-v
prints the target's pathname and "Not a directory."  If a directory in
the target tree has a non-directory source, verbose 
.I tlink 
prints the
target's pathname and "Is a directory."  If a symbolic link in the
target tree names no existent file, then 
.I tlink 
will attempt to unlink
the stale link.  Upon successful removal, verbose 
.I tlink 
will print the target's pathname and "No such file or directory."
.bp
.PP
The 
.B \-x
option adds regular expressions describing filenames to be
excluded from the tree walk to a list.  The list's initial contents
are:
.PP
.DT
.nf
	^\.{1,2}$
	^RCS$
	^.*,v$
.fi
.PP
Specifying 
.B \-X
eliminates all but the first of these expressions from the
exclusion list.
.SH AUTHOR
Brendan Eich, 01/14/87
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stat(2), 
regexp(3X).


