'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CTYPE 3C 
.SH NAME
isalpha, isupper, islower, isdigit, isxdigit, isalnum, isspace, ispunct, isprint, isgraph, iscntrl, isascii \- classify or translate characters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ctype.h>
.PP
.B int isalpha (c)
.br
.B int c;
.PP
.B . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
These macros classify character-coded integer values
by table lookup.
Each is a predicate returning nonzero for true,
zero for false.
.I Isascii\^
is defined on all integer values; the rest
are defined only where 
.I isascii\^
is true and on the single non-\s-1ASCII\s0 value
.SM
.B EOF
(\-1 \- see
.IR stdio (3S)).
.TP \w'\f2toupper(c)\f1\ \ \ 'u
.I isalpha\^
.I c\^
is a letter.
.TP
.I isupper\^
.I c\^
is an upper-case letter.
.TP
.I islower\^
.I c\^
is a lower-case letter.
.TP
.I isdigit\^
.I c\^
is a digit [0-9].
.TP
.I isxdigit\^
.I c\^
is a hexadecimal digit [0-9], [A-F] or [a-f].
.TP
.I isalnum\^
.I c\^
is an alphanumeric (letter or digit).
.TP
.I isspace\^
.I c\^
is a space, tab, carriage return, new-line, vertical tab, or form-feed.
.TP
.I ispunct\^
.I c\^
is a punctuation character (neither control nor alphanumeric).
.TP
.I isprint\^
.I c\^
is a printing character, code 040 (space) through 0176 (tilde).
.TP
.I isgraph\^
.I c\^
is a printing character, like
.I isprint\^
except false for space.
.TP
.I iscntrl\^
.I c\^
is a delete character (0177) or an ordinary control character
(less than 040).
.TP
.I isascii\^
.I c\^
is an \s-1ASCII\s0 character, code less than 0200.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the argument to any of these macros is not in the
domain of the function,
the result is undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
conv(3C), ascii(5).
.\"	@(#)ctype.3c	5.1 of 10/19/83
