'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)dup.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 5/13/86
.\"
.TH DUP2 3B
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dup2 \- duplicate a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
dup2(oldd, newd)
int oldd, newd;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dup2
duplicates an existing file descriptor.
The argument \f2oldd\fP is a small non-negative integer index in
the per-process descriptor table.  The value must be less
than the size of the table, which is returned by
.IR getdtablesize (2).
The value of
.IR newd
desired for the new descriptor is specified.
If this descriptor is already
in use, the descriptor is first deallocated as if a
.IR close (2)
call had been done.
.PP
The file referenced by the descriptor does not distinguish
between references using \f2oldd\fP and \f2newd\fP in any way.
Thus if \f2newd\fP and \f2oldd\fP are duplicate references to an open
file,
.IR read (2),
.IR write (2)
and
.IR lseek (2)
calls all move a single pointer into the file,
and append mode, non-blocking I/O and asynchronous I/O options
are shared between the references.
If a separate pointer into the file is desired, a different
reference to the file must be obtained by issuing an
additional
.IR open (2)
call.
The close-on-exec flag on the new file descriptor is unset.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The value \-1 is returned if an error occurs in either call.
The external variable
.I errno
indicates the cause of the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Dup2
fails if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
\f2Oldd\fP or
\f2newd\fP is not a valid active descriptor
.TP 15
[EMFILE]
Too many descriptors are active.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
accept(2),
open(2),
close(2),
fcntl(2),
pipe(2),
socket(2),
socketpair(2),
getdtablesize(2)
