'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ECVT 3C 
.SH NAME
ecvt (_d_ecvt), fcvt (_d_fcvt), gcvt (_d_gcvt) \- convert floating-point
number to string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B char \(**ecvt (value, ndigit, decpt, sign)
.B float value;
.B int ndigit, \(**decpt, \(**sign;
.PP
.B char \(**_d_ecvt (value, ndigit, decpt, sign)
.B long float value;
.B int ndigit, \(**decpt, \(**sign;
.PP
.B char \(**fcvt (value, ndigit, decpt, sign)
.B float value;
.B int ndigit, \(**decpt, \(**sign;
.PP
.B char \(**_d_fcvt (value, ndigit, decpt, sign)
.B long float value;
.B int ndigit, \(**decpt, \(**sign;
.PP
.B char \(**gcvt (value, ndigit, buf)
.B float value;
.B int ndigit, \(**decpt, \(**sign;
.B char \(**buf;
.PP
.B char \(**_d_gcvt (value, ndigit, buf)
.B long float value;
.B int ndigit, \(**decpt, \(**sign;
.B char \(**buf;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ecvt\^
converts 
.I value\^
to a null-terminated string of
.I ndigit\^
digits,
returning a pointer to the string.
The low-order digit is rounded.
The position of the decimal point relative to the
beginning of the string is stored indirectly
through
.I decpt\^
(negative means to the left of the
returned digits). The decimal point is not
included in the returned string.
If the sign of the result is negative,
the word pointed to by
.I sign\^
is non-zero, otherwise
it is zero.
.PP
.I Fcvt\^
is identical to 
.IR ecvt 
except that the correct digit
has been rounded for Fortran F-format output of the number
of digits specified by
.IR ndigit .
.PP
.I Gcvt\^ 
converts the
.I value\^
to a null-terminated string in
the array pointed to by
.I buf\^
and returns
.IR buf .
It attempts to produce
.I ndigit\^
significant digits in Fortran F-format if
possible, otherwise E-format, ready for
printing. A minus sign, if there is one, or a decimal point will be
included as part of the returned string.
Trailing zeros are suppressed.
.PP
The long float versions
.I _d_ecvt, _d_fcvt, and _d_gcvt\^
function the same as the standard entry points, returning the type
.I long float.\^
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The functions use standard floating point, and may cause exceptions due
to overflow or underflow.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fpsigset(3C)
setfpe(3X)
printf(3S)
.SH BUGS
The return values point to static data
whose content is overwritten by each call.
.\"	@(#)ecvt.3c	5.1 of 10/25/83
