'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ETHERS 3R
.SH NAME
ethers: ether_ntoa, ether_aton, ether_ntohost, ether_hostton, ether_line \- ethernet address mapping operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.B #include <net/if.h>
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.B #include <netinet/if_ether.h>
.PP
.B char *ether_ntoa(e)
.B struct ether_addr *e;
.PP
.B struct ether_addr *ether_aton(s)
.B char *s;
.PP
.B ether_ntohost(hostname, e)
.B char *hostname;
.B struct ether_addr *e;
.PP
.B ether_hostton(hostname, e)
.B char *hostname;
.B struct ether_addr *e;
.PP
.B ether_line(l, e, hostname)
.B char *l;
.B struct ether_addr *e;
.B char *hostname;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are useful for mapping 48 bit ethernet numbers to their
ASCII representations or their corresponding host names, and vice versa.
.LP
The function
.I ether_ntoa
converts a 48 bit ethernet number pointed to by
.I e
to its standard ACSII representation;
it returns a pointer to the ASCII string.
The representation is of the form: ``x:x:x:x:x:x'' where
.I x
is a hexadecimal number between 0 and ff.
The function
.I ether_aton
converts an ASCII string in the standard representation back
to a 48 bit ethernet number;  the function returns NULL if the string
cannot be scanned successfully.
.LP
The function 
.I ether_ntohost
maps an ethernet number (pointed to by
.IR e )
to its associated hostname.  The string pointed to by
.I hostname
must be long enough to hold the hostname and a null character.
The function returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
Inversely, the function
.I ether_hostton
maps a hostname string to its corresponding ethernet number;
the function modifies the ethernet number pointed to by
.IR e .
The function also returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
.LP
The function
.I ether_line
scans a line (pointed to by
.IR l )
and sets the hostname and the ethernet number (pointed to by
.IR e ).
The string pointed to by
.I hostname
must be long enough to hold the hostname and a null character.
The function returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
.\"The format of the scanned line is described by
.\".IR ethers (5).
.\".SH FILES
.\"/etc/ethers	(or the yellowpages' maps ethers.byaddr and ethers.byname)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ethers(4)
