'\"macro stdmacro
.TH GETC 3S
.SH NAME
getc, getchar, fgetc, getw \- get character or word from stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B int getc (stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE\*S \(**stream;
.PP
.B int getchar (\|)
.PP
.B int fgetc (stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE\*S \(**stream;
.PP
.B int getw (stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE\*S \(**stream;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getc\^
returns the next character (i.e. byte) from the named input
.IR stream .
It also moves the file pointer, if defined,
ahead one character
in
.IR stream .
.I Getc\^
is a macro and so cannot be used 
if a function is necessary; for example one cannot have a function
pointer point to it.
.PP
.I Getchar\^
returns the next character from the standard input stream,
.IR stdin .
As in the case of
.IR getc ,
.I getchar\^
is a macro.
.PP
.I Fgetc\^
performs the same function as
.IR getc ,
but is a genuine function.
.I Fgetc\^
runs more slowly than
.IR getc ,
but takes less space per invocation.
.PP
.I Getw\^
returns the next word (32-bit integer on a 68000) 
from the named input
.IR stream .
It returns the constant
.SM
.B EOF
upon end-of-file or error, but as that is a valid
integer value,
.I feof\^
and
.IR ferror\^ (3S)
should be used to check the success of
.IR getw .
.I Getw\^
increments the associated file pointer, if defined,
to point to the next word.
.I Getw\^
assumes no special alignment in the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
fclose(3S),
ferror(3S),
fopen(3S),
fread(3S),
gets(3S),
putc(3S),
scanf(3S).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
These functions return the integer constant
.SM
.B EOF
at end-of-file or upon an error.
.SH BUGS
Because it is implemented as a macro,
.I getc\^
treats incorrectly a
.I stream\^
argument with side effects.
In particular,
.B getc(\(**f\(pl\(pl)
doesn't work sensibly.
.I Fgetc\^
should be used instead.
.br
Because of possible differences in word length and byte ordering,
files written using
.I putw\^
are machine-dependent,
and may not be read using
.I getw\^
on a different processor.
.\"	@(#)getc.3s	5.1 of 10/25/83
