'\"macro stdmacro
.TH GETNETGRENT 3R
.SH NAME
getnetgrent, setnetgrent, endnetgrent, innetgr \- get network group entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B innetgr(netgroup, machine, user, domain)
.B char *netgroup, *machine, *user, *domain;
.PP
.B setnetgrent(netgroup)
.B char *netgroup;
.PP
.B endnetgrent()
.PP
.B getnetgrent(machinep, userp, domainp)
.B char **machinep, **userp, **domainp;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2Inngetgr\fP returns 1 or 0, depending on whether
\f2netgroup\fP contains the machine, user, domain triple as a member.
Any of the three strings machine, user, or domain can be NULL, in
which case it signifies a wild card.
.PP
\f2Getnetgrent\fP
returns the next member of a network group.  After the call,
machinep will contain a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly
for userp and domainp.  If any of machinep, userp or domainp is 
returned as a NULL pointer, it signifies a wild card. Getnetgrent will
malloc space for the name.  This space is released when a endnetgrent
call is made.
Getnetgrent returns 1 if it succeeding in obtaining another
member of the network group, 0 if it has reached the
end of the group.
.PP
.I Setnetgrent
establishes the network group from which getnetgrent will
obtain members, and also restarts calls to getnetgrent
from the beginning of the list.  If the previous setnetgrent
call was to a different network group, a endnetgrent call is
implied.
.I Endnetgrent
frees the space allocated during the getnetgrent calls.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/netgroup
.fi
