'\"macro stdmacro
.TH GETPWENT 3C 
.SH NAME
getpwent, getpwuid, getpwnam, setpwent, endpwent \- get password file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <pwd.h>
.PP
.B struct passwd \(**getpwent ( );
.PP
.B struct passwd \(**getpwuid (uid)
.br
.B int uid;
.PP
.B struct passwd \(**getpwnam (name)
.br
.B char \(**name;
.PP
.B void setpwent ( );
.PP
.B void endpwent ( );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Getpwent ,
.I getpwuid\^
and
.I getpwnam\^
each returns a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the
.B /etc/passwd
file.
Each line in the file
contains a ``passwd'' structure, declared in the
.RI < pwd.h\^ >
header file:
.RS .3i
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'struct\ 'u +\w'comment {\ 'u
struct	passwd {
	char	\(**pw_name;
	char	\(**pw_passwd;
	int	pw_uid;
	int	pw_gid;
	char	\(**pw_age;
	char	\(**pw_comment;
	char	\(**pw_gecos;
	char	\(**pw_dir;
	char	\(**pw_shell;
};
.PP
struct	comment {
	char	\(**c_dept;
	char	\(**c_name;
	char	\(**c_acct;
	char	\(**c_bin;
};
.fi
.RE
.DT
.PP
This structure is declared in
.RI < pwd.h\^ >
so it is not necessary to redeclare it.
.PP
The
.I pw_comment\^
field is unused; the others have meanings described in
.IR passwd\^ (4).
.PP
.I Getpwent\^
when first called returns a pointer to the first passwd structure in the file;
thereafter, it returns a pointer to the next passwd structure in the file;
so successive calls can
be used to search the entire file.
.I Getpwuid\^
searches from the beginning of the file until a numerical user id matching
.I uid\^
is found and
returns a pointer to the particular structure in 
which it was found.
.I Getpwnam\^
searches from the beginning of the
file until a login name matching
.I name\^
is found, and returns a pointer to the particular structure
in which it was found.
If an end-of-file or an error
is encountered on reading, these functions return a
.SM NULL
pointer.
.PP
A call to
.I setpwent\^
has the effect of rewinding
the password file
to allow
repeated searches.
.I Endpwent\^
may be called to
close the password file
when processing is complete.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cuserid(3S), getlogin(3C), getgrent(3C), passwd(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A
.SM
.B NULL
pointer is
returned on
.SM
.B EOF
or error.
.SH WARNING
The above routines use \f3<stdio.h>\fP, which causes 
them to increase the size of programs,
not otherwise using standard I/O, more
than might be expected.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area,
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
Also see 
.IR cuserid\^ (3S).
.br
.SH NOTE
There are two versions of the primitives
documented in this manual entry:  a vanilla
version and a Yellow Pages version.
The programmatic interface of both versions
is identical.
The vanilla version gets its information from an ASCII
file in
.IR /etc .
The Yellow Pages version knows about
Sun's Yellow Pages distributed
lookup service.
If you want the Yellow Pages version, link
the program according to the instructions
for (3Y) primitives as described in
.IR intro (3).
Refer to
.IR ypserv (1M)
and the
.I NFS User's Guide
for more information about the Yellow Pages.
.\"	@(#)getpwent.3c	5.1 of 10/25/83
