'\"macro stdmacro
.TH IBTAB 3N
.SH NAME
ibtab: setibfile, setibent, endibent, getibent, ibnflags \- package for dealing with ibtab files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B setibfile (file)
.B char *file;
.PP
.B int setibent ( )
.PP
.B endibent ( )
.PP
.B struct ibtab *getibent ( )
.PP
.B int ibnflags (flagstr, val)
.B char *flagstr;
.B int *val;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a basic set of routines for dealing with
.IR ibtab (4)
format files such as
.IR /etc/ibtab .
By default
.I /etc/ibtab
is used.
.I setibfile
changes
the default within the calling program.
.PP
.I setibent
opens and positions the file at the origin.
.I getibent
returns a pointer to a (static)
structure containing the "next" entry.
0 is returned at the end-of-file.
The structure is declared in the include file
.IR <ibtab.h> .
.I endibent
closes the file.
.PP
.I ibnflags
interprets the flags (ibt_flags) field,
saving its numeric equivalent in the caller-supplied val.
The return value is 0 if the string is a legitimate
expression,
\-1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
	# include "ibtab.h"
	extern struct ibtab *getibent();
	struct ibtab *ip;
	int val;
	...
	setibent();
	while( (ip = getibent()) != 0 )
	{
	    if( ibnflags(ip->ibt_flags,&val) < 0 )
		printf("illegal flags string %s\en",ip->ibt_flags);
	    else
		printf("%s --> 0x%x\en",ip->ibt_flags,val);
	}
	endibent();
.br
.fi
.SH FILES
/etc/ibtab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ib(7),
iib(1M), ibtab(4)
.SH BUGS
.I getibent
stores data in static areas.
Return values are over-written by
subsequent calls.
