'\"macro stdmacro
.TH INTRO 3
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to subroutines and libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.B #include <device.h>
.PP
.B #include <get.h>
.PP
.B #include <gl.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes functions found
in various libraries, other than those functions
that directly invoke U\s-2NIX\s+2
system primitives,
which are described in Section\ 2 of this volume.
Certain major collections are identified by a
letter after the section number:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP \w'(3M)\ \ 'u
(3C)
These functions, together with those of Section\ 2 and those
marked (3S), constitute the Standard C Library
.IR libc ,
which is automatically loaded by the C compiler,
.IR cc\^ (1).
The link editor
.IR ld\^ (1)
searches this library under the
.B \-lc
option.
Declarations for some of these functions may be obtained
from
.I #include
files indicated on the appropriate pages.
.TP
(3S)
These functions constitute the
``standard
.SM I/O
package''
(see
.IR stdio\^ (3S)).
These functions are in the library
.IR libc ,
already mentioned.
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from
the
.I #include
file
.IR <stdio.h> .
.TP
(3M)
These functions constitute the Math Library,
.IR libm .
They are not automatically loaded by the C compiler,
.IR cc ;
however, the link editor searches this library under the
.B \-lm
option.
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from
the
.I #include
file
.IR <math.h> .
.TP
(3G)
These functions constitute the IRIS Graphics Library which are documented
in the 
.IR "IRIS User's Guide" .
If the 
.B \-Zg 
flag is specified, the C compiler searches this library.
Declarations for these functions may be obtained from the 
.I #include
file
.IR <gl.h> .
Other constants used by the Graphics Library are defined in
.I <device.h>
and
.IR <get.h> .
.TP
(3B)
Berkeley compatibility routines.
This library provides compatible implementations of a
.B limited
subset of the functions provided by the Standard C Library
in the Berkeley 4.3 Distribution of UNIX.
Include files needed for routines in this library are
in the tree
.IR /usr/include/bsd .
To compile and link a program that calls (3B) routines,
use a compile command of the form:
.br
.in +\n(INu
\f3cc \-I/usr/include/bsd \f2prog.c\f3 \-lbsd\f1
.in
.br
.TP
(3N)
These functions constitute the internet network library.
Compiling instructions are the same as for (3B)
routines.
.TP
(3R)
RPC support routines and Yellow Pages (YP) routines.
This library contains routines that 
implement the RPC protocol
and routines that 
provide a programmatic
interface to Sun's YP distributed lookup service.
The library also contains YP versions of standard routines
like
.IR getpwent (3C)
that are different in a YP environment.
To compile and link a program that calls (3R) routines,
use a compile command of the form:
.br
.in +\n(INu
\f3cc \-I/usr/include/sun \-I/usr/include/bsd \f2prog.c\f3 \-lsun \-lbsd\f1
.in
.br
The
.B \-I/usr/include/bsd
and 
.B \-lbsd 
are required because routines in the (3R) library call routines
in the (3B) library.
Note that the order of the libraries must be as
given in order for the references to be resolved.
This library is provided as part of the
NFS option package, so it may not be present on
all systems.
.TP
(3X)
Various
specialized routines.
The libraries in which these routines are found are given
on the appropriate pages.
.SH DEFINITIONS
A
.I character\^
is any bit pattern able to fit into a byte on the machine.
The
.I null character\^
is a character with value 0,
represented in the C language as '\e0'.
A
.I character array\^
is a sequence of characters.
A
.I "null-terminated character array\^"
is a sequence of
characters, the last of which is the
.IR "null character" .
A
.I string\^
is a designation for a
.IR "null-terminated character array" .
The
.I "null string"
is a character array containing only the null character.
A
.SM
NULL
pointer is the value that is obtained by casting
.B 0
into a pointer.
The C language guarantees that this value will not match
that of any legitimate pointer, so many functions that
return pointers return it to indicate an error.
.SM
NULL
is defined as
.B 0
in
.IR <stdio.h> ;
the user can include his own definition if he is
not using
.IR <stdio.h> .
.SH FILES
/lib/libc.a
.br
/usr/lib/libm.a
.br
/usr/lib/libgl.a
.br
/usr/lib/libbsd.a
.br
/usr/lib/libsun.a
.SH SEE ALSO
\f2IRIS User's Guide\fP
.br
\f2IRIS Workstation Guide\fP
.br
ar(1),
cc(1),
ld(1),
nm(1),
intro(2),
stdio(3S).
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\"Functions in the Math Library (3M) may return
.\"the conventional values
.\".B 0
.\"or
.\".SM
.\".B HUGE
.\"(the largest single-precision floating-point number)
.\"when the function is undefined for the
.\"given arguments or when the value is not representable.
.\"In these cases, the external variable
.\".I errno\^
.\"(see
.\".IR intro\^ (2))
.\"is set to the value
.\".SM EDOM
.\"or
.\".SM ERANGE\*S.
.\"	@(#)intro.3	5.1 of 11/15/83
