'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MOUNT 3X
.SH NAME
mount \- keep track of remotely mounted filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <rpcsvc/mount.h>
.SH RPC INFO
.nf
program number:
	MOUNTPROG
.PP
xdr routines:
	xdr_exportbody(xdrs, ex)
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct exports *ex;
	xdr_exports(xdrs, ex);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct exports **ex;
	xdr_fhandle(xdrs, fh);
		XDR *xdrs;
		fhandle_t *fp;
	xdr_fhstatus(xdrs, fhs);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct fhstatus *fhs;
	xdr_groups(xdrs, gr);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct groups *gr;
	xdr_mountbody(xdrs, ml)
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct mountlist *ml;
	xdr_mountlist(xdrs, ml);
		XDR *xdrs;
		struct mountlist **ml;
	xdr_path(xdrs, path);
		XDR *xdrs;
		char **path;
.PP
procs:
	MOUNTPROC_MNT
		argument of xdr_path, returns fhstatus.
		Requires unix authentication.
	MOUNTPROC_DUMP
		no args, returns struct mountlist
	MOUNTPROC_UMNT
		argument of xdr_path, no results.
		requires unix authentication.
	MOUNTPROC_UMNTALL
		no arguments, no results.
		requires unix authentication.
		umounts all remote mounts of sender.
	MOUNTPROC_EXPORT
	MOUNTPROC_EXPORTALL
		no args, returns struct exports
.PP
versions:
	MOUNTVERS_ORIG
.PP
structures:
	struct mountlist {		/* what is mounted */
		char *ml_name;
		char *ml_path;
		struct mountlist *ml_nxt;
	};
	struct fhstatus {
		int fhs_status;
		fhandle_t fhs_fh;
	};
	/*
	 * List of exported directories
	 * An export entry with ex_groups
	 * NULL indicates an entry which is exported to the world.
	 */
	struct exports {
		dev_t		  ex_dev;	/* dev of directory */
		char		 *ex_name;	/* name of directory */
		struct groups	 *ex_groups;	/* groups allowed to
		struct exports	 *ex_next;	 mount this entry */
	};
	struct groups {
		char		*g_name;
		struct groups	*g_next;
	};
.fi
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/librpcsvc.a	RPC services library
.SH SEE ALSO
mount(1M), showmount(1M), mountd(1M).
.SH NOTE
To compile and link a program that calls any of these routines,
use a compile command of the form:
.RS
\f3cc \-I/usr/include/sun \-I/usr/include/bsd \f2prog.c\f3 \-lrpcsvc \-lsun \-lbsd\f1
.RE
