'\"macro stdmacro
.TH REGCMP 3X
.SH NAME
regcmp, regex \- compile and execute regular expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B char \(**regcmp(string1 [, string2, .\|.\|.], 0)
.br
.B char \(**string1, \(**string2, .\|.\|.;
.PP
.B char \(**regex(re, subject[, ret0, .\|.\|.])
.br
.B char \(**re, \(**subject, \(**ret0, .\|.\|.;
.PP
.B extern char \(**loc1;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I regcmp\^
compiles a regular expression and returns a pointer to the compiled form.
.IR malloc\^ (3C)
is used to create space for the vector.
It is the user's responsibility to free unneeded space so allocated.
A
.SM NULL
return from
.I regcmp\^
indicates an incorrect argument.
.IR regcmp\^ (1)
has been written to generally preclude the need
for this routine at execution time.
.PP
.I Regex\^
executes a compiled pattern against the subject string.
Additional arguments are passed to receive values back.
.I Regex\^
returns
.SM NULL
on failure or a pointer to the next unmatched character on success.
A global character pointer
.I loc1\^
points to where the match began.
.I regcmp\^
and
.I regex\^
were mostly borrowed from the editor,
.IR ed\^ (1);
however, the syntax and semantics have been changed slightly.
The following are the valid symbols and their associated meanings.
.TP "\w'\f3( .\|.\|. )$\f2n\^\fP\ \ \ 'u"
.B [\|]\|*\|.^
These symbols retain their current meaning.
.TP
.B $
Matches the end of the string, \f3\en\fP matches the new-line.
.TP
.B \-
Within brackets the minus means
.IR through .
For example,
.B [\^a\-z\^]
is equivalent to
.BR [\^abcd\|.\|.\|.xyz\^] .
The \f3\-\fP can
appear as itself only if used as the last or
first character.
For example, the character class expression
.B [\^]\-\^]
matches the characters
.BR ] \ and\  \- .
.TP
.B +
A regular expression followed by \f3+\fP means
.IR "one or more times" .
For example,
.B [0\-9]+
is equivalent to
.BR [0\-9][0\-9]\(** .
.TP
.B "{m} {m,} {m,u}"
Integer values enclosed in \f3{\|}\fP indicate the
number of times the preceding regular expression is to be applied.
.I m\^
is the minimum number and
.I u\^
is a number, less than 256, which is the maximum.
If only
.I m\^
is present (e.g., {m}),
it indicates the exact number of times the regular
expression is to be applied.
{m,} is analogous to {m,infinity}.
The plus (\f3+\fP) and star (\f3\(**\fP) operations are
equivalent to {1,} and {0,} respectively.
.TP
.B "( .\|.\|. )$\f2n\^\fP"
The value of the enclosed regular expression is
to be returned.
The value
will be stored in the
.RI ( n+1\^ )th
argument following the subject argument.
At present,
at most ten enclosed regular expressions are allowed.
.I Regex\^
makes its assignments unconditionally.
.TP
.B "( .\|.\|. )"
Parentheses are used for grouping.
An operator, e.g.
.BR \(** ", " + ", " {\|} ,
can work on a single character or a regular
expression enclosed in parenthesis.
For example, (a\(**(cb+)\(**)$0.
.PP
By necessity, all the above defined symbols are special.
They must, therefore, be escaped to be used as themselves.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
.nf
char \(**cursor, \(**newcursor, \(**ptr;
	\&.\|.\|.
newcursor = regex((ptr = regcmp("^\\n", 0)), cursor);
free(ptr);
.fi
.PP
matches a leading new-line in the subject string
pointed at by cursor.
.IP
.nf
char ret0[9];
char \(**newcursor, \(**name;
	\&.\|.\|.
name = regcmp("([A\-Za\-z][A\-za\-z0\-9\_]{0,7})$0", 0);
newcursor = regex(name, "123Testing321", ret0);
.fi
.PP
matches through the string ``Testing3'' and will return
the address of the character after the last matched character (cursor+11).
The string ``Testing3'' will be copied to the
character array
.IR ret0 .
.IP
.nf
#include "file.i"
char \(**string, \(**newcursor;
	\&.\|.\|.
newcursor = regex(name, string);
.fi
.PP
applies a precompiled regular expression in
.B file.i
(see
.IR regcmp\^ (1))
against
.IR string .
.PP
This routine is kept in
.BR /usr/lib/lib\s-1PW\s+1.a .
.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1),
regcmp(1),
malloc(3C).
.\"	@(#)regcmp.3x	5.1 of 10/25/83
