'\"macro stdmacro
.TH STDIO 3S
.SH NAME
stdio \- standard buffered input/output package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.SM
.B FILE
.B \(**stdin, \(**stdout, \(**stderr;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions described in the entries of sub-class\ 3S of this manual constitute an efficient,
user-level
.SM I/O
buffering scheme.
The in-line macros
.IR getc (3S)
and
.IR putc (3S)
handle characters quickly.
The macros
.IR getchar ,
.IR putchar ,
and
the higher-level routines
.IR fgetc ,
.IR fgets ,
.IR fprintf ,
.IR fputc ,
.IR fputs ,
.IR fread ,
.IR fscanf ,
.IR fwrite ,
.IR gets ,
.IR getw ,
.IR printf ,
.IR puts ,
.IR putw ,
and
.I scanf\^
all use
.I getc\^
and
.IR putc\^ ;
they can be freely intermixed.
.PP
A file with associated buffering is called a
.I stream\^
and is declared to be a pointer to a defined type
.SM
.BR FILE\*S .
.IR fopen\^ (3S)
creates certain descriptive data for a stream
and returns a pointer to designate the stream in all
further transactions.
Normally, there are three open streams with constant
pointers declared in
the <stdio.h> header file and associated with the standard open files:
.RS
.PP
.PD 0
.TP \w'\f3stdout\fP\ \ \ 'u
.B stdin
standard input file
.TP
.B stdout
standard output file
.TP
.B stderr
standard error file.
.RE
.PD
.PP
A constant 
.SM
.B NULL
(0)
designates a nonexistent pointer.
.PP
An integer constant
.SM
.B EOF
(\-1) is returned
upon end-of-file or error by most integer functions that
deal with streams
(see the individual descriptions for details).
.PP
Any program that uses this package
must include the header file of pertinent macro definitions,
as follows:
.PP
.RS
#include \|<stdio.h>
.RE
.PP
The functions and constants mentioned in the entries of sub-class\ 3S
of this manual
are declared in that header file
and need no further declaration.
The constants and the following ``functions'' are
implemented as macros (redeclaration of these names
is perilous):
.IR getc ,
.IR getchar ,
.IR putc ,
.IR putchar ,
.IR feof ,
.IR ferror ,
.IR clearerr ,
and
.IR fileno .
.SH SEE ALSO
open(2), close(2), lseek(2), pipe(2), read(2), write(2),
ctermid(3S),
cuserid(3S),
fclose(3S),
ferror(3S),
fopen(3S),
fread(3S),
fseek(3S),
getc(3S),
gets(3S),
popen(3S),
printf(3S),
putc(3S),
puts(3S),
scanf(3S),
setbuf(3S),
system(3S),
tmpfile(3S),
tmpnam(3S),
ungetc(3S).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Invalid
.I stream\^
pointers will usually cause grave disorder, possibly including
program termination.
Individual function descriptions describe the possible error conditions.
.\"	@(#)stdio.3s	5.1 of 10/24/83
