'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TERMCAP 3X
.SH NAME
termcap, termlib: tgetent, tgetnum, tgetflag, tgetstr, tgoto, tputs \- terminal independent operation routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B extern char PC, *BC, *UP;
.B extern short ospeed;
.PP
.B tgetent(bp, name)
.B char *bp, *name;
.PP
.B tgetnum(id)
.B char *id;
.PP
.B tgetflag(id)
.B char *id;
.PP
.B char *tgetstr(id, area)
.B char *id, **area;
.PP
.B char *tgoto(cm, destcol, destline)
.B char *cm;
.PP
.B tputs(cp, affcnt, outc)
.B register char *cp;
.B int affcnt;
.B int (*outc)();
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions extract and use capabilities from the terminal capability data
base
.IR termcap\^ (4).
To link with these routines, use the loader option
.BI \-ltermcap .
Note that these are low level routines.
.PP
.I tgetent\^
extracts the entry for terminal
.I name\^
into the buffer at
.IR bp .
.I bp\^
should be a character buffer of size
1024 and must be retained through all subsequent calls
to
.IR tgetnum ,
.IR tgetflag ,
and
.IR tgetstr .
.I tgetent\^
returns \-1 if it cannot open the
.I termcap\^
file, 0 if the terminal name given does not have an entry,
and 1 if all goes well.
It will look in the environment for a 
.SM TERMCAP
variable.
If found, and the value does not begin with a slash,
and the terminal type
.B name\^
is the same as the environment string 
.SM TERM\*S,
the 
.SM TERMCAP
string is used instead of reading the termcap file.
If it does begin with a slash, the string is used as a path name rather than
\f2/etc/termcap\f1.
This can speed up entry into programs that call
.IR tgetent ,
as well as to help debug new terminal descriptions
or to make one for your terminal if you can't write the file
\f2/etc/termcap\f1.
.PP
.I tgetnum\^
gets the numeric value of capability
.IR id ,
returning \-1 if it is not given for the terminal.
.I tgetflag\^
returns 1 if the specified capability is present in
the terminal's entry, 0 if it is not.
.I tgetstr\^
gets the string value of capability
.IR id ,
placing it in the buffer at
.IR area ,
advancing the
.I area\^
pointer.
It decodes the abbreviations for this field described in
.IR termcap\^ (4),
except for cursor addressing and padding information.
.PP
.I tgoto\^
returns a cursor addressing string decoded from
.I cm\^
to go to column
.I destcol\^
in line
.IR destline .
It uses the external variables
.B \s-1UP\s+1
(from the \f3up\f1 capability)
and
.B \s-1BC\s+1
(if \f3bc\f1 is given rather than \f3bs\f1)
if necessary to avoid placing \f3\en\f1, \f3^D\f1 or \f3^@\f1 in
the returned string.
(Programs which call 
.I tgoto\^
should be sure to turn off the 
.SM XTABS
bit(s),
since 
.I tgoto\^
may now output a tab.
Note that programs using 
.I termcap\^
should in general turn off 
.SM XTABS
anyway since some terminals use control-I for other functions,
such as nondestructive space.)
If a \f3%\f1 sequence is given which is not understood, then
.I tgoto\^
returns 
.SM OOPS\*S.
.PP
.I tputs\^
decodes the leading padding information of the string
.IR cp ;
.I affcnt\^
gives the number of lines affected by the operation, or 1 if this is
not applicable,
.I outc\^
is a routine which is called with each character in turn.
The external variable
.I ospeed\^
should contain the output speed of the terminal as encoded by
.SM ANDing
the
.I c_cflag
field of the
.I termio
structure with
.SM CBAUD
see \f2termio\f1(7)).
The external variable
.B \s-1PC\s+1
should contain a pad character to be used (from the \f3pc\f1 capability)
if a null (\f3^@\f1) is inappropriate.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/libtermcap_p.a\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/lib/libtermcap.a	termcap library
.br
/usr/lib/libtermcap_p.a	termcap library (for profiling)
.br
/etc/termcap	data base
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
ex(1), termcap(4), termio(7)
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy
.\"	@(#)termcap.3	5.1 of 11/16/83
.SH NOTES
This manual page used to be called \f2termlib\f1.
