'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TMPNAM 3S 
.SH NAME
tmpnam, tempnam \- create a name for a temporary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B char \(**tmpnam (s)
.br
.B char \(**s;
.PP
.B char \(**tempnam (dir, pfx)
.br
.B char \(**dir, \(**pfx;
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions generate file names that can safely be used for
a temporary file.
.PP
.I Tmpnam\^
always generates a file name using the path-name defined as
.B P_tmpdir
in the
.RI < stdio.h\^ >
header file.
If
.I s\^
is
.SM NULL,
.I tmpnam\^
leaves its result in an internal static area and returns a pointer
to that area.
The next call to
.I tmpnam\^
will destroy the contents of the area.
If
.I s\^
is not
.SM NULL,
it is assumed to be the address of an array of at least
.B L_tmpnam
bytes, where
.B L_tmpnam
is a constant defined in
.RI < stdio.h\^ >;
.I tmpnam\^
places its result in that array and returns
.IR s .
.PP
.I Tempnam\^
allows the user to control the choice of a directory.
The argument
.I dir\^
points to the path-name of the directory in which
the file is to be created.
If
.I dir\^
is
.SM NULL
or points to a string which is not a path-name
for an appropriate directory, the path-name defined as
.B P_tmpdir\^
in the
.RI < stdio.h\^ >
header file is used.
If that path-name is not accessible,
.B /tmp
will be used as a last resort.
This entire sequence can be up-staged by
providing an environment variable
.SM
.B TMPDIR
in the user's environment, whose value is a path-name for the
desired temporary-file directory.
.PP
Many applications prefer their temporary files to have certain
favorite initial letter sequences in their names.
Use the
.I pfx\^
argument for this.  This argument may be
.SM NULL
or point to a string
of up to five characters to be used as the first few characters of the
temporary-file name.
.PP
.I Tempnam\^
uses
.IR malloc\^ (3C)
to get space for the constructed file name,
and returns a pointer to this area.
Thus, any pointer value returned from
.I tempnam\^
may serve as an argument to
.I free\^
(see
.IR malloc\^ (3C)).
If
.I tempnam\^
cannot return the expected result for any reason, i.e.
.I malloc\^
failed, or none of the above mentioned attempts to find
an appropriate directory was successful, a
.SM NULL
pointer will be returned.
.SH NOTES
These functions generate a different file name each time they are called.
.PP
Files created using these functions and either
.I fopen\^
or
.I creat\^
are temporary only in the sense that they reside in a directory
intended for temporary use, and their names are unique.
It is the user's responsibility to use
.IR unlink\^ (2)
to remove the file when its use is ended.
.SH SEE ALSO
creat(2), unlink(2),
fopen(3S), malloc(3C), mktemp(3C), tmpfile(3S).
.SH BUGS
If called more than 17,576 times in a single process,
these functions will start recycling previously used names.
.br
Between the time a file name is created and the file is opened, it
is possible for some other process to create a file with the same name.
This can never happen if that other process is using
these functions or
.IR mktemp ,
and the file names are chosen so as to render duplication by other
means unlikely.
.\"	@(#)tmpnam.3s	5.1 of 10/25/83
