.TH capture "" "" "Silicon Graphics"
.rs
.sp 0.1i
.SH\(Dy
.SH NAME 
.B "capture, rcapture"
\- dumps screen images to file or hard-copy device
.SH SPECIFICATION
.nf
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
C
.B "capture(dest, cmap)"
.B "char *dest;"
.B "RGBvalue cmap[][3];"
.IP
.B "rcapture(dest, cmap, left, right, bottom, top,"
.B "		dithsize, dithmat, res)"
.B "char *dest;"
.B "RGBvalue cmap[][3];"
.B "Screencoord left, right, bottom, top;"
.B "long dithsize, res;"
.B "short *dithmat;"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
FORTRAN
.B "subroutine captur(dest, length, cmap)"
.B "character*(*) dest"
.B "integer*4 length"
.B "character*1 cmap(3,*)"
.IP
.B "subroutine rcaptu(dest, length, cmap, left, right, bottom, top,"
.B "		dithsi, dithma, res)"
.B "character*(*) dest"
.B "integer*4 length"
.B "character*1 cmap(3,*), dithma(dithsi, dithsi)"
.B "integer*4 left, right, bottom, top, dithsi, res"
.IP 
.TP \w'FORTRAN\ \ \ 'u
Pascal
.B "procedure capture(dest: pstring128; var cmap: RGBvalue);"
.IP
.B "procedure rcapture(dest: pstring128; var cmap: RGBvalue;"
.B "		left, right, bottom, top: Screencoord;"
.B "		dithsize: longint; var dithmat: Short; res: longint);"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B capture
dumps the screen image into the file
.I dest
in a format
that is compatible with a Tektronix 4692 color inkjet printer.
In C, if
\f2dest\f1 = 0,
it creates a file called
.I capture.img.
The function used to open
.I dest
for output
allows for spooling to other machines, such as print servers
(see the
.B coloropen
manual pages in section 3 of the
.I UNIX
.I Programmer's
.I Manual,
.I Volume
.I 1).
.PP
In C, if
.I cmap
= 0,
.B capture
reads the colormap from the hardware.
Otherwise,
.I cmap
is a pointer to an array of RGBvalue triplets.  This is not
available in FORTRAN.  You cannot pass a zero (0) in FORTRAN because
it passes all variables by reference. 
The size of the array depends on how many bitplanes you have
and whether you dump an RGB image or a colormapped image.
For a colormapped image, the size of the array should be
.EQ
2 sup NUMBER_OF_PLANES.
.EN
The array serves as a software colormap of indices that
identify the red, green, and blue values for each pixel.
In RGB mode, the IRIS uses only the first 256 entries in the array
and looks up each channel (red, green, and blue) individually.
.PP
.B rcapture
is an extension of
.B capture
that allows you to specify more variables.
\f2left, right, bottom,\f1
and \f2top\f1 define a rectangular section of the screen to capture.
.I dithsize
and
.I dithmat
are used for software dithering.
.I dithmat
is a square matrix of size
.I dithsize.
If
.I dithsize
or
.I dithmat
(or both) are zero (0), there is no dithering.  In FORTRAN, the 
.I dithsize
must be zero (0). 
.PP
The Tektronix printer accepts data containing 1, 2, or 4 bits per RGB
component per pixel.
.I res
selects one of these formats to generate.
The printer has four colors (cyan, magenta, yellow, and black)
and uses
internal dithering if more than 1 bit per component is specified.
If dithering is selected the system uses 1 bit per component. 
.PP
In FORTRAN, there is an extra argument,
.I length,
which is the number of characters in the 
string
.I dest.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Manual pages for the following commands are located in the
.I UNIX
.I Programmer's
.I Manual,
Volume I:
.PP
colord(1M),
coloropen(3),
tek(7)
.SH NOTE
This routine is available only in immediate mode.
.PP
This routine only works on workstations.
