'\" t
.TH COLOROPEN 3
.SH NAME
coloropen, colorwrite, colorclose \- color image file 
creation routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <stdio.h>"
.br
.B "#include <sys/tek4692.h>"

.B "FILE *coloropen (dest, format, header, copies)"
.br
.B "char *dest;"
.br
.B "int format;"
.br
.B "struct co_union *header;"
.br
.B "int copies;"

.B "int colorwrite (fdesc,format,count,buf)"
.br
.B "FILE *fdesc;"
.br
.B "int format;"
.br
.B "int count;"
.br
.B "char *buf;"

.B "int colorclose (fdesc);"
.br
.B "FILE *fdesc;"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de ne
.sp (\\$1)
.sp -(\\$1)
..
.I Coloropen\^
returns a pointer to an I/O stream to allow the calling program to write color
raster data to the Tektronix 4692 printer.
Before returning the stream pointer,
.I coloropen\^
writes a header to the stream, 
specifying the image color resolution, the number of copies to
print, and other information supplied by the calling program.
.I Colorwrite\^
is called many times to write a raster line to the stream.
.I Colorclose\^
closes the stream and queues the file for printing as needed.
.SS Coloropen
.PP
.I Dest\^
specifies the destination for the data.  If
.I dest
is an empty string (""), then the image is spooled to the local system.
If the last character is a colon ( : ), then the data is sent via XNS
to the specified system (the name to the left of the colon) to be spooled
and printed there. Thus ``sauron:'' will spool to the system named sauron.
.PP
If the last character of the
.I dest
parameter is an exclamation mark ( ! ), 
then the data is sent to the specified
system using 
UUCP.  (UUCP should be running on XNS or IP/TCP to that system rather than
serial communication which is too slow).
If the name preceding the colon or exclamation mark
is absent, then the default
name specified in \f2/usr\%/spool\%/colord\%/DEFAULT\%xns\fP or
\f2/usr\%/spool\%/colord\%/DEFAULT\%uucp\fP, respectively, will be used.
.PP
Any other sequence of characters in the \f2dest\fP string will cause the
image to be stored in a file of the specified name. 
In this case, the user will
probably want to invoke \f2colord\f1(1) to print the file.
.PP
.I Format\^
specifies the format of the user-supplied header. Three different formats
are available. The first,
.BR CO_DEFAULT ,
specifies that the image will be 1024 x 768 pixels with standard
Tektronix 4692 parameters (landscape mode, no black and white inversion,
etc.)
The user need only specify the resolution, for hardware dithering, as either
1, 2, or 4 bits per color in each pixel.
.PP
In addition to the resolution, the second format, 
.BR CO_XY ,
allows the user to also specify the
.B x
and
.B y
coordinate sizes.
The third format,
.BR CO_TEK4692 ,
allows the user to specify the actual Tektronix 4692 header (except for
the checksum and EOL bytes which are supplied by the system) for complete
control and functionality.
.PP
.B Header\^
is a pointer to the header containing configuration information such as
the desired number of pixels for the x and y axis.
.PP
.B Copies\^
allows the user to print up to 100 copies of the same image.
One should not attempt to print an image when the paper tray is empty.
.PP
The output stream (file or pipe output) that
.I coloropen
produces consists of a 1024 byte header followed by zero or more data records.
The header format depends on the format parameter supplied to
.IR coloropen .
The data record format depends on the format specified to
.IR colorwrite .
.PP
The header formats are in decimal as follows

.TS
center doublebox;
cB s s
lI | lI | lI
l | l | l.
CO_DEFAULT
_
Byte	Contents	Comments
=
0	0	CO_DEFAULT >> 8
1	85	CO_DEFAULT & 0xff

2	varies	copies >> 8
3	varies	copies & 0xff

4	0	resolution >> 8
5	{1,2,4}	resolution & 0xff
.TE

.TS
center doublebox;
cB s s
lI | lI | lI
l | l | l.
CO_XY
_
Byte	Contents	Comments
=
0	0	CO_XY >> 8
1	86	CO_XY & 0xff

2	varies	copies >> 8
3	varies	copies & 0xff

4	0	resolution >> 8
5	{1,2,4}	resolution & 0xff

6	1 to 1536	x size, in pixels
7	1 to 1122	y size, in pixels
.TE

.TS
center doublebox;
cB s s
lI | lI | lI
l | l | l.
CO_TEK4692
_
Byte	Contents	Comments
=
0	0	CO_TEK4692 >> 8
1	87	CO_TEK4692 & 0xff

2	varies	copies >> 8
3	varies	copies & 0xff

4	varies	mode (see below)
5	varies	repaint (see below)

6	varies	x size, high byte (see below)
7	varies	x size, low byte (see below)

8	varies	y size, high byte (see below)
9	varies	y size, low byte (see below)
.TE
.sp
.PP
In CO_TEK4692 format, the user must supply the data in the actual Tektronix
4692's format. This is documented in the
.I "Tektronix 4692 Color Graphics Copier Device Driver Development Guide"
and summarized here.
.PP
The mode byte is broken up into several bit fields. Bit 0 is the low order
bit.
Set bit 0 to true to specify black and white inversion.  Black and white
inversion means that white will be printed
when the intensity of all colors for a given pixel is zero (normally black)
and vice versa.
This inversion
allows for the fact that the background color on many CRTs is black and the
background color for the printer is white (blank paper).
.PP
Set bit 1 (the "quality bit") to true to fix the image resolution at 158 pixels
per inch. If bit one is false, 
then the pixels will be spread as needed.   The  pixels can spread
up to 
128 pixels per inch.   When the pixels are allowed to spread,
the image takes up as much of the page as
possible.
.PP
Bits 2 and 3 specify the image orientation.

.TS
box,center;
cB s s
lI | lI | lI
l | l | l.
Image orientation
_
Bit 3	Bit 2	Format
=
0	0	Landscape (normal mode)
0	1	Portrait (bottom of page)
1	0	Portrait (center of page)
1	1	Portrait (top of page)
.TE
.ne 6
.PP
Bits 4 and 5 specify the image resolution in bits per color per pixel.

.TS
box,center;
cB s s
lI | lI | lI
l | l | l.
Image resolution
_
Bit 5	Bit 4	Resolution
=
0	0	1 bit/primary (2 pixels/byte)
0	1	2 bit/primary (1 byte/pixel)
1	0	4 bit/primary (2 bytes/pixel)
1	1	not allowed
.TE

.PP
Bit 6 is the communications mode. The driver ignores it.
Bit 7 must be true.
.PP
Byte 5 is the repaint byte. The low-order three bits specify how many images
should be painted on the same page.  These bits should normally be 
set to 0x01 for paper.
The count can be increased for transparencies since they generally require
more ink. If this is done then the image data should be replicated.
It may also be used to superimpose several different images on the same page.
The repaint count should be
.IR or ed
with 0x80.
.PP
Byte 6 is the high-order 7 bits of the size of the x dimension, in pixels,
.IR or ed
with 0x80.
Byte 7 is the low-order 7 bits of the x dimension size
.IR or ed
with 0x80.
.PP
Bytes 8 and 9 are, respectively, the high-order and low-order 7 bits of the
y size,
.IR or ed
with 0x80.
.PP
The system will supply the checksum and EOL bytes.
The format of the raster data is documented in \f2tek\f1(7).
.SS Colorwrite
.PP
.I Colorwrite\^
writes out each raster line in an internal format that preserves the byte
count of each write.
The first parameter,
.IR fdesc ,
specifies the open I/O stream destination for writing the raster line.
The second parameter,
.IR format ,
specifies the format to be used.
Currently only
.B CW_RAW
is supported.
.I Count\^
specifies the number of bytes in this raster line.
.I Buf\^
is a pointer to a character buffer containing the raster data.
.ne 5
.SS Colorclose
.PP
.I Colorclose\^
closes the I/O stream,
.IR fdesc ,
and spools the image (unless output to an ordinary file
was specified in
.IR coloropen ).
Colorclose returns non-zero on success and zero on failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
capture(1G), colord(1), capture(3G), tek(7),
.I "Tektronix 4692 Color Graphics Copier Device Driver Development Guide"
(Tektronix Part No. 070-4818-00)
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man3/RCS/coloropen.3,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:42:11 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	coloropen.3,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:42:11  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\"Revision 1.5  86/09/05  11:16:32  oz
.\"*** empty log message ***
.\"
.\"Revision 1.4  86/04/22  11:53:46  celia
.\"cosmetic
.\"
.\"Revision 1.3  86/04/10  14:38:49  celia
.\"had to remove .br for per.indx
.\"
.\"Revision 1.2  85/06/03  16:41:49  robinf
.\"Cosmetic changes for GL2-W2.3
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  85/05/31  15:23:07  robinf
.\" Edited for GL2-W2.3

.\" Revision 1.1  85/05/31  15:15:01  robinf
.\" Edited for GL2-W2.3

