.TH PLOT 3X
.SH NAME
plot \- graphics interface subroutines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B openpl (\^)
.PP
.B erase (\^)
.PP
.B label (s)
.B char \(**s;
.PP
.B line (x1, y1, x2, y2)
.B int x1, y1, x2, y2;
.PP
.B circle (x, y, r)
.B int x, y, r;
.PP
.B "arc (x, y, x0, y0, x1, y1)"
.B "int x, y, x0, y0, x1, y1;"
.PP
.B move (x, y)
.B int x, y;
.PP
.B cont (x, y)
.B int x, y;
.PP
.B point (x, y)
.B int x, y;
.PP
.B linemod (s)
.B char \(**s;
.PP
.B space (x0, y0, x1, y1)
.B int x0, y0, x1, y1;
.PP
.B closepl (\^)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These subroutines
generate
graphic output in a relatively
device-independent manner.
.I Space\^
must be used before any of these functions to declare the
amount of space necessary. See
.IR plot\^ (4).
.I Openpl\^
must be used before any of the others to open the
device for writing.
.I Closepl\^
flushes the output.
.PP
.I Circle\^
draws a circle of radius
.I r\^
with center at the point
.RI ( x , y\^ ).
.PP
.I Arc\^
draws an arc of a circle with center at the point
.RI  ( x , y\^ )
between the points
.RI ( x0 , y0\^ )
and
.RI ( x1 , y1\^ ).
.PP
String arguments to
.I label\^
and
.I linemod\^
are terminated by nulls and do not contain new-lines.
.PP
See
.IR plot\^ (4)
for a description
of the effect of the remaining functions.
.PP
The library files listed below provide
several flavors of these routines.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/lib4014\f3.\fPa\ \ \ 'u
/usr/lib/libplot\f3.\fPa	produces output for
.IR tplot\^ (1G)
filters
.br
/usr/lib/lib300\f3.\fPa	for \s-1DASI\s+1 300
.br
/usr/lib/lib300s\f3.\fPa	for \s-1DASI\s+1 300s
.br
/usr/lib/lib450\f3.\fPa	for \s-1DASI\s+1 450
.br
/usr/lib/lib4014\f3.\fPa	for Tektronix 4014
.DT
.SH WARNINGS
In order to compile a program containing these functions
in
.I file.c\^
it is necessary to use
``cc
.I file.c\^
\-lplot''.
.PP
In order to execute it, it is necessary to use
\&``a.out | tplot''.
.PP
The above routines use \f3<stdio.h>\fP, which causes 
them to increase the size of programs,
not otherwise using standard I/O, more
than might be expected.
.SH SEE ALSO
tplot(1G), plot(4).
.\"	@(#)plot.3x	5.1 of 10/25/83
