'\"macro stdmacro
.ds M)  \f2\s-1MR\s+1\f1
.ds R)  \f2\s-1RELEASE NUMBER\s+1\f1
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.ds P UNIX
.TH ADMIN 1
.SH NAME
admin \- create and administer \s-1SCCS\s0 files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B admin
[\f3\-n\f1]
[\f3\-i\f1[name] ]
[\f3\-r\f1rel]
[\f3\-t\f1[name] ]
[\f3\-f\f1flag[flag-val] ]
[\f3\-d\f1flag[flag-val] ]
[\f3\-a\f1login]
[\f3\-e\f1login]
[\f3\-m\f1[mrlist] ]
[\f3\-y\f1[comment] ]
[\f3\-h\f1]
[\f3\-z\f1]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Admin\^
is used to create new \*(S) files
and change parameters of existing ones.
Arguments to
.IR admin ,
which may appear in any order,
consist of keyletter arguments,
which begin with \f3\-\f1,
and named files
(note that \*(S) file names must begin with the characters
\f3s.\f1).
If a named file doesn't exist,
it is created,
and its parameters are initialized according to
the specified keyletter arguments.
Parameters not initialized by a keyletter argument
are assigned a default value.
If a named file does exist,
parameters corresponding to specified keyletter arguments
are changed,
and other parameters are left as is.
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I admin\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \f3s.\f1)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \f3\-\f1 is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
Again, non-\*(S) files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
The keyletter arguments are as follows.
Each is explained as though only one named file is to be processed
since the effects of the arguments
apply independently to
each named file.
.TP "\w'\f3\-y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
.B \-n
This
keyletter indicates that a new \*(S) file is to be created.
.TP
\f3\-i\f1[\f2name\f1]
The
\f2name\^\f1 of a file from which the text for a new \*(S) file is to be taken.
The text constitutes the first delta of the file
(see
.B \-r
keyletter for delta numbering scheme).
If the
.B i
keyletter is used,
but the file name is omitted,
the text is obtained by reading the standard input
until an end-of-file is encountered.
If this keyletter is omitted,
then the \*(S) file is created empty.
Only one \*(S) file may be created
by an
.I admin\^
command on which the
.B i
keyletter is supplied.
Using a single
.I admin\^
to create two or more \*(S) files require that they be created
empty
(no
.B \-i
keyletter).
Note that the
.B \-i
keyletter implies the
.B \-n
keyletter.
.TP
.BI \-r rel
The
.I rel\c\|
ease into which the initial delta is inserted.
This keyletter may be used only if the
.B \-i
keyletter is also used.
If the
.B \-r
keyletter is not used,
the initial delta is inserted into release 1.
The level of the initial delta is always 1
(by default initial deltas are named 1.1).
.TP
\f3\-t\f1[\f2name\f1]
The
\f2name\^\f1 of a file from which descriptive text for the \*(S) file
is to be taken.
If the
.B \-t
keyletter is used
and
.I admin\^
is creating a new \*(S) file
(the
.B \-n
and/or
.B \-i
keyletters also used), the descriptive text file name
must also
be supplied.
In the case of existing \*(S) files:
(1) a
.B \-t
keyletter without a file name causes removal of descriptive text
(if any) currently in the \*(S) file, and (2) a
.B \-t
keyletter with a file name causes text (if any) in the
named file to replace
the descriptive text (if any) currently in the \*(S) file.
.TP
.BI \-f flag
This
keyletter specifies a \f2flag\f1, and
, possibly, a value for the \f2flag\f1, to
be placed in the \*(S) file.
Several
.B f
keyletters may be supplied on a single
.I admin\^
command line.
The allowable \f2flag\f1s and their values are:
.RS "\w'\f3\-y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
.TP "\w'\f3m\f2mod\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.B b
Allows
use of
the
.B \-b
keyletter on a
.IR get\^ (1)
command to create branch deltas.
.TP
.BI c ceil 
The
highest release
(i.e., "ceiling"),
a number less than or equal to 9999, which may be
retrieved by a
.IR get\^ (1)
command for editing.
The default value for an unspecified
.B c
flag is 9999.
.TP
.BI f floor
The
lowest release
(i.e., "floor"),
a number greater than 0 but less than 9999,
which may be retrieved by a
.IR get\^ (1)
command for editing.
The default value for an unspecified
.B f
flag is 1.
.TP
.BI d \s-1SID\s0
The
default delta number
(\*(I)) to be used by a
.IR get\^ (1)
command.
.TP
.B i
Causes
the "No id keywords (ge6)" message issued by
.IR get\^ (1)
or
.IR delta\^ (1)
to be treated as a fatal error.
In the absence of this flag, the message is only a warning.
The message is issued if no
\*(S) identification keywords
(see
.IR get\^ (1))
are found
in the text retrieved or stored in the \*(S) file.
.TP
.B j
Allows
concurrent
.IR get\^ (1)
commands for editing
on the same \*(I) of an \*(S) file.
This allows multiple concurrent updates to the same
version of the \*(S) file.
.TP
.BI l list
A
\f2list\^\f1 of releases to which deltas can no longer be made
.RB ( "get \-e"
against one of these "locked" releases fails).
The \f2list\^\f1 has the following syntax:
.TP
\&
<list>
::= <range> \(or <list> , <range>
.br
<range>~::=	\*(R) \(or \f3a\f1
.TP
\&
The
character \f3a\f1 in the \f2list\^\f1 is equivalent to specifying
.I "all releases\^"
for the named \*(S) file.
.TP
.B n 
Causes
.IR delta\^ (1)
to create a "null" delta
in each of those releases (if any) being skipped when a delta is made
in a
.I new\^
release (e.g., in making delta 5.1 after delta 2.7, releases 3 and 4
are skipped).
These null deltas serve as "anchor points" so that branch deltas
may later be created from them.
The absence of this flag causes skipped releases to be
non-existent in the \*(S) file
preventing branch deltas from being created from them in the future.
.TP
.BI q text 
User
definable text substituted for all occurrences
of the %\&Q% keyword in \*(S) file text retrieved by
.IR get\^ (1).
.TP
.BI m mod 
\f2Mod\|\f1ule
name of the \*(S) file
substituted for all occurrences of the %\&M% keyword in \*(S) file
text retrieved by
.IR get\^ (1).
If the
.B m
flag is not specified, the value
assigned is the name of the \*(S) file with the leading
\f3s.\f1 removed.
.TP
.BI t type
\f2Type\^\f1
of module in the \*(S) file substituted for all occurrences of
%\&Y% keyword in \*(S) file text retrieved by
.IR get\^ (1).
.TP
\f3v\f1[\f2pgm\f1]
Causes
.IR delta\^ (1)
to prompt for Modification Request (\*(M)) numbers as the
reason for creating a delta.
The optional value specifies the name of an \*(M) number validity
checking program
(see
.IR delta\^ (1)).
(If this flag is set when creating an
.SM SCCS
file, the
.B m
keyletter must also be used even if its value is null).
.RE
.TP "\w'\f3\-y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
.BI \-d flag
Causes
removal (deletion) of the specified \f2flag\^\f1 from an \*(S) file.
The
.B \-d
keyletter
may be specified only when processing existing
\*(S) files.
Several
.B \-d
keyletters may be supplied on a single
.I admin\^
command.
See the
.B \-f
keyletter for allowable \f2flag\f1 names.
.RS "\w'\f3\-y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
.TP "\w'\f3m\f2mod\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BI l list
A
\f2list\^\f1 of releases to be "unlocked".
See the
.B \-f
keyletter for a description of the
.B l
flag and the syntax of a \f2list\f1.
.RE
.TP "\w'\f3\-y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
.BI \-a login
A
\f2login\^\f1 name, or numerical \s-1UNIX\s+1 System group \s-1ID\s+1,
to be added to the list of users which
may make deltas (changes) to the \*(S) file.
A group \s-1ID\s+1 is equivalent to specifying all
\f2login\f1 names common to that group \s-1ID\s+1.
Several
.B a
keyletters may be used
on a single
.I admin\^
command line.
As many \f2login\|\f1s, or numerical group \s-1ID\s+1s,
as desired may be on the list simultaneously.
If the list of users is empty,
then anyone may add deltas.
.TP
.BI \-e login
A
\f2login\^\f1 name, or numerical group \s-1ID\s+1,
to be erased from the list of users
allowed to make deltas (changes) to the \*(S) file.
Specifying a group \s-1ID\s+1 is equivalent to specifying all
\f2login\f1 names common to that group \s-1ID\s+1.
Several
.B e
keyletters may be used on a single
.I admin\^
command line.
.TP
\f3\-y\f1[\f2comment\f1]
The
.I comment\^
text is inserted
into the \*(S) file as a comment
for the initial delta in a manner identical to that
of
.IR delta\^ (1).
Omission of the \f3\-y\f1 keyletter results in a default
comment line being inserted in the form:
.TP
\&
date and time created
.IR \s-1YY\s+1 / \s-1MM\s+1 / \s-1DD\s+1
.IR \s-1HH\s+1 : \s-1MM\s+1 : \s-1SS\s+1
by
.I login\^
.TP
\&
The 
.B \-y
keyletter
is valid only if the
.B \-i
and/or
.B \-n
keyletters are
specified (i.e., a new \*(S) file is being created).
.TP
\f3\-m\f1[\f2mrlist\f1]
The
list of Modification Requests (\*(M)) numbers is inserted into the \*(S) file
as the reason for creating the initial delta in a manner
identical to
.IR delta\^ (1).
The
.B v
flag must be set and the \*(M) numbers are validated if the
.B v
flag has a value (the name of an \*(M) number validation program).
Diagnostics will occur if the
.B v
flag is not set or \*(M) validation fails.
.TP
.B \-h
Causes
.I admin\^
to check the structure of the \*(S) file
(see
.I sccsfile\c\^
(5)), and to compare a newly
computed check-sum (the sum of all the characters in the \*(S) file
except those in the first line) with the check-sum that is stored
in the first line of the \*(S) file.
Appropriate error diagnostics are produced.
.TP
\&
This
keyletter inhibits writing on the file, so that it
nullifies the effect of any other keyletters supplied, and
is, therefore, only meaningful when processing existing files.
.TP
.B \-z
The
\*(S) file check-sum is recomputed and stored in the first line
of the \*(S) file
(see
.BR \-h ,
above).
.TP
\& 
Note
that use of this keyletter on a truly corrupted file
may prevent future detection of the corruption.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
admin -i file1 s.file1
.PP
creates a new file in 
.SM SCCS 
format named "s.file1", from "file1".
.SH FILES
The last component of
all \*(S) file names must be of the form \f3s.\fP\f2file-name\fP.
New \*(S) files are given mode 444
(see
.IR chmod\^ (1)).
Write permission
in the pertinent directory is,
of course,
required to create a file.
All writing done by
.I admin\^
is to a temporary x-file,
called \f3x.\fP\f2file-name\fP,
(see
.IR get\^ (1)),
created with mode 444 if the
.I admin\^
command is creating a new \*(S) file, or with the same mode
as the \*(S) file if it exists.
After successful execution of
.I admin\c\^
,
the \*(S) file is removed (if it exists), and the x-file
is renamed with the name of the \*(S) file.
This ensures that changes are made to the \*(S) file only
if no errors occurred.
.PP
It is recommended that directories containing \*(S) files be mode
755
and that \*(S) files themselves be mode 444.
The mode of the directories allows
only the owner to modify
\*(S) files contained in the directories.
The mode of the \*(S) files prevents any modification
at all except by \*(S) commands.
.PP
If it should be necessary to patch an \*(S) file for any reason,
the mode may be changed to 644 by the owner
allowing use of
.IR ed\^ (1).
.I "Care must be taken!\^"
The edited file should
.I always\^
be processed by an
.B admin
.B \-h
to check for corruption followed by an
.B admin
.B \-z
to generate a proper check-sum.
Another
.B admin
.B \-h
is recommended to ensure the \*(S) file is valid.
.PP
.I Admin\^
also makes use of
a transient lock file
(called \f3z.\fP\f2file-name\fP),
which is used to prevent simultaneous updates to the \*(S) file by different users.
See
.IR get\^ (1)
for further information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
delta(1),
ed(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1),
what(1),
sccsfile(4).
.br
.\".I "Source Code Control System User's Guide\^"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help\^ (1)
for explanations.
.\"	@(#)admin.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
