'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ARCH 1D
.SH NAME
arch \- display a simulated architectural model
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.B /usr/people/demos/arch
.PP
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/arch
.in
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I arch
displays a model of an imaginary city block.
Operator controls adjust the viewing position and select one or several
structures for display.
.PP
Most of the user interface is through the mouse buttons.
Each non-zero combination of mouse buttons causes a different viewpoint
movement.
The mouse valuators are ignored.
.PP
In the initial state, a single building is displayed.
Typing keys create different actions.
.nf
.sp
	Key 	Function
.sp
	s	turn on (or off) wireframe buildings that complete the block
.br
	f 	cover (or uncover) building surfaces
.br 
	m	turn on (or off) automatic movement around the city
.br
	r 	initialize the program
.br
	h 	show help menu (does not work in window manager)
.br
	ESC 	exit the program
.sp
.fi
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.PP
Upon entry into the program,
.I arch
is set for NTSC or high resolution output, depending on the currently
selected monitor.
The display monitor can be altered during program execution by
pressing the proper control character.
.nf
.sp
	Key	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Display Monitor
.sp
	CTRL-A60	HZ monitor
.br
	CTRL-B	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 30 HZ monitor
.br 
	CTRL-C		NTSC display
.br
	CTRL-D	PAL (European Video) display
.sp
.fi
.SH "WINDOW MANAGER"
.PP
The window manager version of \f2usr/people/mexdemos/arch\f1 runs without the
aforementioned display options.
If the site is in constant motion, it stays in motion, even if
the window is detached.
.sp
The multiple display options (60-Hz, 30-Hz, NTSC and PAL) are
not available for the window manager version.
.sp
There is no help menu in the window manager version of arch.
Raster fonts do not scale to arbitrarily sized windows.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Gary Tarolli
.SH "HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS"
For the non-window manager version,
twelve bitplanes of image memory are necessary.
For the window manager version,
sixteen bitplanes of image memory are necessary.

