'\"macro stdmacro
.TH AS 1
.SH NAME
as \- assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
.B \-o
objfile [
.B \-i
]\ [
.B \-j
]\ [\ inputfile\ ]
.br
.B as10
.B \-o
objfile [
.B \-j
]\ [\ inputfile\ ]
.br
.B as20
.B \-o
objfile [
.B \-i
]\ [\ inputfile\ ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I as\^
assembles the 68010 or 68020 assembly language file
.I inputfile.
If no file name is specified the standard input is used.
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly are treated as global.
.PP
The relocatable output of the assembly is put in the file
.IR objfile ,
which 
must
be specified.
.PP
The
.B \-i
option restricts 
the instruction set of
.I as
to 68010 instructions.  This is the default on 68010-based machines.
Invoking 
.I as
with the name
.I as10
has the same effect as specifying the
.B \-i
option.
.PP
The
.B \-j
option expands 
the instruction set of
.I as
to include 68020 instructions and addressing modes.  
This is the default on 68020-based machines.
Invoking 
.I as
with the name
.I as20
has the same effect as specifying the
.B \-j
option.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
as \-o file.o filea 
.PP
would assemble the 
file ``filea'' and put the output
of the assembly into ``file.o''.
.IP
/lib/ccom \-N file.c | as \-o file.o
.PP
would cause 
.I as
to assemble the output of 
``/lib/ccom''
and place the resultant object file in
``file.o''.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
adb(1),
ld(1),
nm(1),
a.out(4)
.br
.IR "U\s-2NIX\s+2 Programmer's Manual, Volume IIB,
``as20 Reference Manual''
.SH BUGS
Certain instructions and addressing modes in \f2as\fP for the 68020
processor may have not been fully tested.  Users are cautioned
to suspect the more atypical members of this set.
.\"	@(#)as.1	5.1 of 11/15/83
