'\"macro stdmacro
.ds P UNIX
.TH AT 1
.SH NAME
at \- execute commands at a later time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B at
time [ day ] [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I At\^
squirrels away a copy of the named
.I file\^
(standard input default) to be used as input to
.IR sh\^ (1)
at a specified later time.
A
.IR cd\^ (1)
command to the current directory is inserted at the beginning,
followed by assignments to all environment variables.
When the script is run, it uses the user and group ID of the creator of the
copy file.
.PP
The
.I time\^
is 1 to 4 digits, with an optional following "A", "P", "N" or "M" for
AM, PM, noon or midnight.
One and two digit numbers are taken to be hours, three and four digits
to be hours and minutes.
If no letters follow the digits, a 24-hour clock time is understood.
.PP
The optional
.I day\^
is either (1) a month name followed by a day number, or (2) a day of the week;
if the word "week" follows invocation is moved seven days further off.
Names of months and days may be recognizably truncated.
Examples of legitimate commands are
.IP
at 8am jan 24
.br
at 1530 fr week
.PP
.I At\^
programs are executed by periodic execution of the command
.I /usr/lib/atrun
from
.IR cron\^ (1M).
The granularity of
.I at\^
depends upon how often
.I atrun\^
is executed.
.PP
Standard output or error output is lost unless redirected.
The directory 
.B /usr/spool/at/past
must be present or 
.I at\^
will not run.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
at 10:25
.br
ls -l /etc > /dev/console
.PP
will cause the directory 
.B /etc
to be listed in long format
on device 
.B /dev/console
at approximately 10:25 pm on the same day.
The exact time this is executed will depend on how often
.I /usr/lib/atrun\^
is scheduled to run in 
.BR /usr/lib/crontab ; 
e.g., if
.I /usr/lib/atrun\^
is set up to run every 15 minutes, the above command
will be executed at 10:30 am.  A temporary file is created in
directory 
.B /usr/spool/at 
containing the "ls -l" command to be executed;
this temporary file will be removed upon completion of the command.
Note that 
.B /usr/lib/crontab 
must contain a schedule entry for 
.I /usr/lib/atrun\^
in order for "at" to work.
.SH FILES
.TP "\w'/usr/spool/at/yy.ddd.hhhh.uu\ \ \ 'u"
/usr/spool/at/yy.ddd.hhhh.uu
activity to be performed at hour
.I hhhh\^
of day
.I ddd\^
of year
.IR yy .
.I uu\^
is a unique number.
.PD 0
.TP
/usr/spool/at/lasttimedone
contains
.I hhhh\^
for last hour of activity.
.TP
/usr/spool/at/past
directory of activities now in progress.
.TP
/usr/lib/atrun
program that executes activities that are 
due.
.TP
/usr/lib/crontab
cron table entry for running atrun.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
calendar(1),
.br
cron(1M)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complains about various syntax errors and times out of range.
.SH BUGS
Due to the granularity of the execution of
.I /usr/lib/atrun,
there may be bugs in scheduling things almost exactly 24 hours into the future.
.\"	@(#)at.1	5.1 of 11/16/83
