'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CALENDAR 1 
.SH NAME
calendar \- reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calendar
[ \f3\-\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I calendar\^
consults the file \f3calendar\fP in the current directory
and prints out lines that contain today's or
tomorrow's date anywhere in the line.
Most reasonable month-day dates such as ``Dec. 7,''
``december 7,'' ``12/7,'' etc., are recognized, but not
``7 December' or ``7/12''.
On weekends and holidays ``tomorrow'' extends through the next
business day.
Entries preceded with an equals sign ( \f3=\f1 ) will only match
on the exact day, without advance ``tomorrow'', weekend, or holiday notice.
.PP
A \(** may be used in the place of a month to mean every month.
The \f3calendar\fP file is first filtered through the ``C'' pre-processor
so that \f3#define\fPs and \f3#include\fPs may be used.
.PP
.I calendar\^
will match days of the week if they are preceded with an at-sign ( \f3@\f1 ).
The day should not be immediately followed with a slash except as discussed
below.
The at-sign is necessary to avoid unintentionally matching a weekday given on
a line where a month-day match is desired merely as an reminder of the
day of the week that the event occurs on.
.PP
One may specify every second, every third, or every fourth week for selecting
a day of the week.
To do this, specify an at-sign, the name of the weekday, a slash ( \f3/\f1 ),
the modulus of the day of the year (January first being one) of any
date which applies, and a second slash followed by the repetition factor.
For example, we get paid every second Friday with this Friday being a payday.
Today is Thursday and \f2date \s-2+%\s0j\f1 says today is the 236\u\s-4th\s0\d
day of the year.
Thus this Friday (tomorrow) is day 237.
Since 237 modulus 2 is 1 an appropriate entry would be
.sp
.ti +1i
@Friday/1/2 Payday
.sp
.PP
When 
an argument is present,
.I calendar\^
does its job for every user
who has a file \f3calendar\fP in their login directory
and sends them any positive results by
.IR mail\^ (1),
using the first matching line to form a \f2Subject\f1 line.
Normally this is done daily by facilities in the 
.SM U\s-2NIX\s+2
operating system under control of 
.IR cron\^ (1M).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
If the user has the following lines, among other lines containing
date information, in the file ``calendar'' in the login directory:
.IP
.ta +2.5i
.nf
Monday, September 6	Labor Day Holiday
Tuesday, Sep 7	Back to work
.fi
.PP
typing in 
.IP
calendar
.PP
either on the Friday before or on the specified Monday will cause these lines
to be printed on the screen.
.PP
The following might be typical of a \f3calendar\fP file:
.IP
.nf
#include private/birthdays
Monday, September 6 Labor Day Holiday
Tuesday, Sep 7 Back to work
January 1 New Year's day
9/6 Labor Day Holiday
9-6 Take the day off
*/1 Mortgage payment due
07/04 Fourth of July
#define ECR in Engineering Conference Room
#define MCR in Main Conference Room
@Thursday SCR meeting 10:30 ECR
@Wed Meeting on reducing meetings 2pm MCR
@Monday and @Wednesday: Scuba Class at 7pm
.fi
.SH FILES
.ta +1.8i
calendar	your calendar of events
.br
/usr/lib/calprog	to figure out today's and tomorrow's dates
.br
/etc/passwd	login directories
.br
/usr/lib/acct/holidays	table of holidays
.br
/tmp/cal\(**	temporary files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
at(1), date(1), mail(1).
.\"	@(#)calendar.1	5.1 of 10/26/83
.\" $Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/calendar.1,v $
.\" @(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\" $Date: 89/03/27 16:44:17 $
