'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ~
.ds P UNIX
.nr f 0
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\f1\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\f1[\f2\\$2\^\f1]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\f1\f2\\$2\^\f1
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds W) \f2\s-1WARNINGS\s+1\^\f1
.ds X) \f2\s-1EXAMPLE\s+1\^\f1
.ds M) \f3\s-1MR\s+1\f1
.ds S) \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I) \f2\s-1SID\s+1\f1
.TH CDC 1
.SH NAME
cdc \- change the delta commentary of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdc
\f3\-r\f1\c
.SM SID
.SP m [mrlist]]
.SP y [comment]]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cdc\^
changes the
.IR "delta commentary" ,
for the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter,
of each
named \*(S) file.
.PP
.I "Delta commentary\^"
is defined to be the Modification Request (\*(M)) and comment
information normally specified via the
.IR delta\^ (1)
command
.RB ( \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I cdc\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \f3s.\f1)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of
.B \-
is given, the standard input is read (see \%\*(W));
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
.PP
Arguments to
.IR cdc ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
.I keyletter\^
arguments, and file names.
.PP
All the described
.I keyletter\^
arguments apply independently to each named file:
.TP "\w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
\-\f3r\s-1\f2SID\f1\s+1 
Used to specify the
.IR S \s-1CCS\s+1
.IR ID entification
(\*(I))
string
of a delta for
which the delta commentary is to be changed.
.TP 
\-\f3m\f1[\f2mrlist\f1]
If the \*(S) file has the
.B v
flag set
(see
.IR admin\^ (1))
then a
list of \*(M) numbers to be added and/or deleted in
the delta commentary of
the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter
.I may\^
be supplied.
A null \*(M) list has no effect.
.IP "" \w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u
\f3\*(M)\f1
entries are added to the list of \*(M)s in the same manner as that of
.IR delta\^ (1).
In order to delete an \*(M), precede the \*(M) number
with the character \f3!\f1 (see \*(X)).
If the \*(M) to be deleted is currently in the list of \*(M)s, it is
removed
and changed into a ``comment'' line.
A list of all deleted \*(M)s is placed in the comment section
of the delta commentary and preceded by a comment line stating
that they were deleted.
.IP "" \w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u
If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B \s-1MR\s+1s?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The \f3\s-1MR\s+1s?\f1 prompt always precedes the \f3comments?\f1 prompt
(see
.B \-y
keyletter).
.IP "" \w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u
\f3\*(M)s\f1
in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \*(M) list.
.IP "" \w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u
Note
that if the
.B v
flag has a value
(see
.IR admin\^ (1)),
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which validates
the correctness of the \*(M) numbers.
If a non-zero exit status is returned from the \*(M) number validation program,
.I cdc\^
terminates
and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.TP "\w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u"
\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]
Arbitrary
text used to replace the \f2comment\^\f1(s) already existing
for the delta specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
The previous comments are kept and preceded by a comment
line stating that they were changed.
A null \f2comment\^\f1 has no effect.
.IP "" \w'\-\f3y\f1[\f2comment\f1]\ \ 'u
If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the
prompt \f3comments?\f1 is issued on the standard output before
the standard input is read;
if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \f2comment\^\f1 text.
.PP
.\"The exact permissions necessary to modify the \*(S) file
.\"are documented in the
.\".IR "Source Code Control System User's Guide" .
The basic permissions to modify the SCCS file are as follows:  
(1) if you made the delta, you can change its delta commentary;
or (2)
if you own the file and directory you can modify the delta commentary.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS .3i
cdc \-r1.6 \-m"bl78-12345 !bl77-54321 bl79-00001" \-ytrouble s.file
.RE
.PP
adds bl78-12345 and bl79-00001 to the \*(M) list, removes bl77-54321
from the \*(M) list, and adds the comment \f3trouble\f1 to delta 1\f3.\f16
of s\f3.\f1file.
.PP
.RS .3i
cdc \-r1\f3.\f16 s\f3.\f1file
.br
\s-1MR\s+1s? !bl77-54321 bl78-12345 bl79-00001
.br
comments? trouble
.RE
.PP
does the same thing.
.DT
.SH WARNINGS
If \*(S) file names are supplied to the
.I cdc\^
command via the standard input
(\f3\-\f1 on the command line),
then the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters must also be used.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'x-file\ \ \ \ 'u
x-file
(see
.IR delta\^ (1))
.TP
z-file
(see
.IR delta\^ (1))
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
admin(1),
delta(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1),
sccsfile(4).
.br
.\""Source Code Control System User's Guide\^"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help\^ (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)cdc.1	5.1 of 11/7/83
