'\"macro stdmacro
.TH COL 1
.SH NAME
col \- filter reverse line-feeds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B col [ \-bfpx ] [\0\-\0]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B col
reads from the standard input and writes onto the standard output.
It performs the line overlays implied by reverse line feeds (
.SM ASCII
code
.B ESC-7
), and by forward and reverse half-line feeds
(
.B ESC-9
and
.BR ESC-8 ).
.B col is particularly useful for filtering multicolumn output
made with the 
.B .rt
command of
.B nroff
and output resulting from use of the 
.BR tbl (1)
preprocessor.
.PP
If the 
.B \-b
option is given,
.B col
assumes that the output device in use is not capable of backspacing.
In this case, if two or more characters are to appear in the same
place, only the last one read will be output.
.PP
Although
.B col
accepts half-line motions in its input, it normally does not
emit them on output.  Instead, text that would appear between lines
is moved to the next lower full-line boundary.  This treatment can
be suppressed by the
.B \-f
(fine) option; in this case, the output from
.B col
may contain forward half-line-feeds (\f3ESC-9\f1), but will still
never contain either kind of reverse line motion.
.PP
Unless the
.B \-x
option is given,
.B col
will convert white space to tabs wherever possible to shorten printing
time.
.PP
The 
.SM
ASCII
control chracters
.B SO
(\\017) and
.B SI
(\\016)are assumed by
.B col
to start and end text in an alternate character set.  The character set
to which each input character belongs is remembered, and on output
.B SO
and 
.B SI
characters are generated as appropriate to ensure that each character
is printed in the correct character set.
.PP
On input, the only control characters accepted are space, backspace, tab return
new-line,
.BR SO ,
.BR SI ,
.BR VT (\\013),
and
.B ESC
followed by
.BR 7 , 8 ,
or
.B 9 .
The
.B VT
character is an alternate form of full reverse line-feed, included for
compatibility with some earlier programs of this type.  All other
non-printing characters are ignored.
.PP
Normally,
.B col
will ignore any escape sequences unknown to it that are found in its
input; the
.B\-p
option may be used to cause
.B col
to output these sequences as regular characters, subject to overprinting
from reverse line motions.  The use of this options is highly discourage
unless the user if fully aware of the textual position of the escape
sequences.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mm (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1).
