'\"macro stdmacro
.TH COLLECTMAIL 1
.SH NAME
collectmail \- convert mail from unix to rmail format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B
collectmail [
.I
message-directory
] [
.I
mailbox ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program was developed for use by the 
Emacs 
command 
.B
rmail 
to convert a mail folder (or folders) in Unix format (a file containing 
many messages) to a 
.I
"snapshot" 
folder in 
.B
Rmail 
format (a directory containing separate message files).
Two familiar examples of a Unix folder
are the files 
.I
~/mbox 
and your mail spool file that is read with the 
.I
 \f2mail\f1(1)
command.
.PP
.B
Collectmail
reads a list of mailboxes (by default, your mail spool file),
splits the mail found in each one into separate files, and places them
in the
.I
message-directory 
(default: ~/Messages/Folder-XXXXXXXX, where XXXXXXXX is a unique 
hexadecimal number).  It creates a file called 
.I
"Directory" 
which is also placed in the 
.I
message-directory .
The first line of this file is the name of the 
.I
mailbox 
from which the 
.I
message-directory 
was created (in the case of a list of mailboxes, it 
is the first one on the list).   
.I
"Directory" 
is a listing of information about each message in the form:
.IP
	<flags> <message-filename> <sender> <subject>
.IP
The first column contains some flags: '>' indicates the current message,
\&'B' indicates that the message is a blindcopy (ie. A copy of a
message that you sent to someone else), 'A' indicates that you've
answered the message, 'N' indicates that the message is new and
unread,  and 'n' indicates that the message is new and read.
.IP
The second column contains a filename that is the internal name of
that message.
.IP
The third column contains the sender of the message, unless it is a
blindcopy, in which case it contains the destination (indicated by
"=>").
.IP
The fourth column contains the subject of the message.
.PP
After the contents of 
.I
mailbox 
have been placed in the 
.I
message-directory , 
the mailbox file is truncated.
.PP
For information on the 
Emacs
database facility, see the following documents:
.PP
.RS 5
.I
Emacs Reference Manual
.br
.SH FILES
.IP "~/mbox"
.IP "~/Messages/<foldername>/Directory"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.IP "mergemail(1)" 17
merges an 
Emacs 
mail folder with an Unix mail folder.
.SH BUGS
.IP
For now, it does no locking on the mail box, unless you have the
exclusive-access mod to the Unix kernel.
