'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CP 1
.SH NAME
cp, ln, mv \- copy, link or move files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cp
[
.B \-ir
] file1 ... target
.br
.B ln
[ 
.B \-sf 
] file1 [ file2 ...] target
.br
.B mv
[
.B \-if
] file1 [ file2 ...] target
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I file1\^
is copied (linked, moved) to
.IR target .
Under no circumstance can
.I file1\^
and
.I target\^
be the same (take care when using
.IR sh\^ (1)
metacharacters).
If
.I target\^
is a directory, then one or more
files are copied (linked, moved) to that directory.
.PP
If the
.B \-i
option is specified with
.I cp\^
or
.I mv 
and
.I target\^
exists, the user is prompted with the message:
.sp
	overwrite \f2target\f1? 
.sp
If the user answers with a line starting with `y', the move or copy
continues.  Any other reply prevents the command from completing.
.PP
If the
.B \-r
option is specified with
.I cp\^
and any of the source files are directories,
.I cp\^
copies each subtree rooted at that name; in this case
the target must be a directory.
.PP
If
.I mv\^
determines that the mode of
.I target\^
forbids writing, it will
print the mode (see
.IR chmod\^ (2))
and read the standard input for one line
(if the standard input is a terminal).
If the line begins with
.BR y ,
the move takes place; if not,
.I mv\^
exits.
.PP
Both
.I mv\^
and 
.I ln\^
will allow
.I file1\^
to be a directory. With 
.IR mv\^ ,
the directory rename
will occur only if the two directories
have the same parent.
With
.IR ln\^ ,
.I file1\^ 
can be a directory when using the
.B \-s
option (see below).
.PP
.@@
A link is a directory entry referring to a file;
one file
(together with its size, all its protection
information, etc.)
may have several links to it.
There are two kinds of links:  hard links and symbolic links.
.PP
By default
.I ln
makes hard links.
A hard link to a file is indistinguishable
from the original directory entry;
any changes to a file are effectively
independent of the name used to reference
the file.  Hard links may not span file systems and may 
not refer to directories.
.PP
With the
.B \-s
option
.I ln
creates symbolic links. 
A symbolic link is a special kind of file whose contents are
the name of another file
(see
.IR symlink (2)).
A symbolic link contains the name of the file to which it is linked.
Most system calls,
including
.IR open (2),
.IR stat (2),
and
.IR access (2),
substitute these contents
when the name of a symbolic link occurs in a pathname.
This process is known as ``following'' symbolic links.
.IR stat (2),
.IR readlink (2),
.IR symlink (2),
and
.IR unlink (2)
also do this substitution,
except on the last component of the pathname.
Thus, they are said to ``not follow'' symbolic links.
Symbolic links may span file systems and may refer to directories.
Note that
.I cp
``follows'' symbolic links,
while
.I mv
and
.I ln
do ``not follow'' symbolic links.
.PP
When the
.B \-f
option is specified with
.I ln
or
.I mv
this stands for force.
This option overrides any mode restrictions or the
.B \-i
switch.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
cp alpha beta gamma /d
.PP
places copies of the three files in the directory
.BR /d .
.SH SEE ALSO
cpio(1),
ls(1),
rm(1),
chmod(2),
symlink(2).
.SH BUGS
If
.I file1\^
and
.I target\^
lie on different file systems,
.I mv\^
must copy the file and delete the original.
In this case the owner name becomes
that of the copying process and any
linking relationship with other files
is lost.
.\"	@(#)cp.1	5.1 of 10/27/83
