'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CPIO 1
.SH NAME
cpio \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpio
.BR \-o\0 [
.BR #aBchHLv\0 ]
[ name-list ]
.PP
.B cpio
.B \-i
[
.IR # BcdhHLmrtuvfsSb6
] [ patterns ]
.PP
.B cpio
.B \-p
[
.B adHLlmruv
] directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cpio \-o
(copy out)
uses the
.I name-list
arguments, or
reads the standard input to obtain a list of pathnames
and copies those files onto the
standard output (or to the device 
\f3/dev/rmt\f2#\f1)
together with pathname and status information.
.PP
.B Cpio \-i
(copy in)
extracts files from the
standard input (or from the device 
\f3/dev/rmt\f2#\f1)
which is assumed to be the product of a previous
.BR "cpio \-o" .
Only files with names that match
.I patterns\^
are selected.
.I Patterns\^
are given in the name-generating notation of
.IR sh\^ (1).
In
.IR patterns ,
meta-characters
.BR ? ,
.BR \(** ,
and
.BR [ \|.\|.\|. ]
match the slash
.B /
character.
Multiple
.I patterns\^
may be specified and
if no
.I patterns\^
are specified, the default for
.I patterns\^
is
.BR \(**
(i.e., select all files).
The extracted files are conditionally created and copied
into the current directory tree
based upon the options described below.
.PP
.B Cpio \-p
(pass)
reads the standard input to obtain a list of path names
of files that are conditionally created and copied
into the destination
.I directory\^
tree based upon the options described below.
.PP
The meanings of the available options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3m\f1\ \ 'u"
.I #
Use 
.BI /dev/rmt # 
as input (for
.BR \-i )
or output (for
.BR \-o ).
Note: 6 has another meaning described below.
.TP
.B a
Reset access times of input files after they have been copied.
.TP
.B B
Input/output is to be blocked 5,120 bytes to the record
(does not apply to the
.I pass\^
option; meaningful only with data directed to or from
.BR /dev/rmt? ).
.TP
.B c
Write
.I header\^
information in
.SM ASCII
character form for portability.
.TP
.B d
.I Directories\^
are to be created as needed.
.TP
.B H
Don't follow symbolic links.
This option is meaningful only with the
.B o
or
.B p
option.
Symbolic links, if any, are copied out as such.
This is the default.
.TP
.B h
Similar to
.B B
option, but block input/output to 250K bytes.
This option is only useful for streaming tape drive
operation.
.TP
.B L
Follow symbolic links.
This option is meaningful only with the
.B o
or
.B p
option.
If symbolic links are encountered,
the referenced files,
rather than the symbolic links themselves,
are copied out.
.TP
.B r
Interactively
.I rename\^
files.
If the user types a null line, the
file is skipped.
.TP
.B t
Print a
.I table of contents\^
of the input.
No files are created.
.TP
.B u
Copy
.I unconditionally\^
(normally, an older file will not replace a newer file with the same name).
.TP
.B v
.IR Verbose :
causes a list of file
names to be printed.
When used with
the
.B t
option,
the table of contents looks like the output of an
.B ls\ \|\-l
command
(see
.IR ls\^ (1)).
.TP
.B l
Whenever possible, link files rather than copying them.
Usable only with
the
.B \-p
option.
.TP
.B m
Retain previous file modification time.
This option is ineffective on directories that are being copied.
.TP
.B f
Copy in all files except those in
.IR patterns .
.TP
.B s
Swap bytes.
Use only with the
.B \-i
option.
.TP
.B S
Swap halfwords.
Use only with the
.B \-i
option.
.TP
.B b
Swap both bytes and halfwords.
Use only with the
.B \-i
option.
.TP
.B 6
Process an old (i.e.,
.SM UNIX
System
.I Sixth\^
Edition format)
file.
Only useful with
.B \-i
(copy in).
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
ls \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-o \|>/dev/rmt1
.br
or
.br
cpio \|\-o0 \|.
.PP
copies the contents of a directory into an archive;
.IP
cd \|olddir
.br
find
.B \|.\|
\-depth \-print \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-pdl \|newdir
.PP
duplicates a directory hierarchy.
.PP
The trivial case
``find
.B \|.\|
\-depth \-print \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-oB \|>/dev/rmt1''
can be handled more efficiently by:
.IP
find
.B \|.\|
\-cpio \|/dev/rmt1
.SH SEE ALSO
ar(1), find(1), symlink(2), cpio(4).
.SH BUGS
Spreading an archive over multiple tapes is not supported.  Inserting a 
second tape could cause the system to crash.
.PP
Pathnames are restricted to 128 characters.
If there are too many unique linked files,
the program runs out of
memory to keep track of them
and, thereafter, linking information is lost.
Only the superuser can copy special files.
The
.B -B
and
.B -h
options do not work with certain magnetic tape drives.
.\"	@(#)cpio.1	5.1 of 10/27/83
