'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ~
.TH CT 1C
.SH NAME
ct \- spawn getty to a remote terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ct
[
.B \-h
] [
.B \-v
] [
.BR \-w n
] [
.BR \-s speed
] telno ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ct\^
dials the phone number of a modem that is attached
to a terminal, and spawns a
.I getty\^
process to that terminal.
.I Telno\^
is a telephone number,
with equal signs for secondary dial tones and minus
signs for delays at appropriate places.
If more than one telephone number is specified,
.I ct\^
will try each in succession until one answers;
this is useful for specifying alternate dialing paths.
.PP
.I Ct\^
will try each line listed in the file
.B \%/usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
until it finds an available line with appropriate
attributes or runs out of entries.
If there are no free lines,
.I ct\^
will ask if it should wait for
one, and if so, for how many minutes
it should wait
before it gives up.
.I Ct\^
will continue to try to open
the dialers
at one-minute intervals until
the specified limit is exceeded.
The dialogue may be overridden by
specifying the
.BI \-w n\^
option, where
.I n\^
is the maximum number of minutes
that
.I ct\^
is
to wait for a line.
.PP
Normally,
.I ct\^
will hang up the current line, so that
that line can answer the incoming call.
The
.B \-h
option will prevent this action.
If the
.B \-v
option is used,
.I ct\^
will send a running narrative
to the standard error output stream.
.PP
The data rate may be set with the
.B \-s
option, where
.I speed\^
is expressed in baud.
The default rate is 300.
.PP
After the user on the destination terminal
logs out,
.I ct\^
prompts, \f3Reconnect?\fP~
If the response begins with the letter \f3n\fP
the line will be dropped;
otherwise,
.I getty\^
will be started again and the \f3login:\fP
prompt will be printed.
.PP
Of course, the destination terminal must be attached
to a modem that can answer the telephone.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
ct -w15 -s1200 644-1234
.PP
dials from the terminal the given modem phone number (644-1234),
spawning a login process at 1200 baud.  If the dialer line is busy,
.I ct
will continue to try to open the dialer at one-minute intervals for
a total of 15 minutes (as set by the 
.B \-w 
option).
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
.br
/usr/adm/ctlog
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cu(1C),
login(1),
uucp(1C).
.\"	@(#)ct.1c	5.1 of 10/27/83
