'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CTAGS 1
.SH NAME
ctags \- maintain a tags file for a C program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ctags
[ 
.B \-a
] [
.B \-u
] [
.B \-w
] [
.B \-x
]
name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ctags\^
makes a tags file for
.IR ex\^ (1)
and
.IR vi\^ (1)
from the specified C, Fortran, and Pascal sources.
.PP
A tags file gives the locations of specified objects (in this case
functions) in a group of files.
Each line of the tags file contains the function name,
the file in which it is defined, and a scanning pattern used to find
the function definition.  These are given in separate fields on the line,
separated by blanks or tabs.
Using the
.I tags\^
file,
.I ex\^
can quickly find these function definitions.
.SS Options
.PP
The
.B \-a
option causes the output to be appended to the tags file
instead of rewriting it.
.PP
The
.B \-u
option causes the specified files to be
.I updated\^
in tags, that is, all references to them are deleted,
and the new values are appended to the file.
This option implies the
.B \-a
option.
(Beware:  this option is implemented in a way which is rather slow;
it is usually faster to simply rebuild the
.I tags\^
file.)
.PP
The
.B \-w
option suppresses warning diagnostics.
.PP
If the
.B \-x
flag is given, 
.I ctags\^
produces a list of function names, the line number and file
name on which each is defined, as well as the text of that line
and prints this on the standard output.  
.PP
Files whose name ends in 
"\&.c"
or
"\&.h"
are assumed to be C source files and are searched for C routine and
macro definitions.
.PP
The tag
.I main\^
is treated specially in C programs.
The tag formed is created by prepending
"M"
to the name of the file, with a trailing ".c" removed, if
any, and leading pathname components also removed.
This makes use of
.IR ctags ,
practical in directories with more than one program.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
ctags \(**.c \(**.h 
.PP 
puts the tags from
all the ".c" and ".h"
files into 
the tagsfile
"tags".
.SH FILES
.ta \w'tags\ \ \ \ \ 'u
tags	output tags file
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
ex(1), vi(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Arnold
.\"	@(#)ctags.1	5.1 of 11/16/83
