'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ~~
.TH CU 1C
.SH NAME
cu \- call another \s-1UNIX\s+1 System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cu
.RB [ \-s speed\|]
.RB [ \-l line\|]
.RB [ \-h \|]
.RB [ \-t \|]
.RB [ \-d \|]
.RB [ \-m \|]
.RB [ \-o \||\| \-e \|]
telno \||\|
.B dir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cu\^
calls up another \s-1UNIX\s+1 system,
a terminal,
or possibly a non-\s-1UNIX\s+1 system.
It manages an interactive conversation with possible
transfers of
.SM ASCII
files.
.I Speed\^
gives the transmission speed (110, 150, 300, 600, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600);
300 is the default value.
Most modems are either 300 or 1200 baud.
Directly connected lines may be set to speeds higher than 1200 baud.
.PP
The
.B \-l
value may be used to specify a device name
for the communications line device to be used.
This can be used to override searching for
the first available line having the right speed.
The
.B \-h
option emulates local echo, supporting calls to
other computer systems which expect terminals to be
in half-duplex mode.
The
.B \-t
option is used when dialing an \s-1ASCII\s+1 terminal which has been
set to auto-answer.
Appropriate mapping of carriage-returns
to carriage-return-line-feed pairs is set.
The
.B \-d
option cause diagnostic traces to be printed.
The
.B \-m
option specifies a direct line which has modem control.
The
.B \-e
.RB( \-o )
option designates that even (odd) parity is to be
generated for data sent to the remote.
.I Telno\^
is the telephone number,
with equal signs for secondary dial tone or minus signs for delays,
at appropriate places.
The string
.B dir
for
.I telno\^
may be used for directly connected lines,
and implies a null \s-1ACU\s+1.
Using
.B dir
insures that a line has been specified by the
.B \-l
option.
.PP
.I Cu\^
will try
each line listed in the file
.B \%/usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
until it finds an available line with appropriate
attributes or runs out of entries.
After making the connection,
.I cu\^
runs as two processes:
the
.I transmit\^
process reads data from the standard input and,
except for lines beginning with ~ ,
passes it to the remote system;
the
.I receive\^
process accepts data from the remote system and,
except for lines beginning with ~ ,
passes it to the standard output.
Normally, an automatic \s-1DC\s+1\&3/\s-1DC\s+1\&1 protocol
is used to control input from the remote so the buffer is
not overrun.
Lines beginning with ~ have special meanings.
.PP
The
.I transmit\^
process interprets the following:
.TP "\w'\f1~\f3%take\f2 \|from\f1 \|[\|\f2to\f1\|]\ \ \ 'u"
.RB ~ .
terminate the conversation.
.TP
.RB ~ !
escape to an interactive shell on the local system.
.TP
\f1~\f3!\f2cmd\f1\|.\|.\|.
run
.I cmd\^
on the local system
(via
.BR "sh \-c" ).
.TP
\f1~\f3$\f2cmd\f1\|.\|.\|.
run
.I cmd\^
locally and send its output
to the remote system.
.TP
\f1~\f3%take\f2 \|from\f1 \|[\|\f2to\f1\|]
copy file
.I from\^
(on the remote system)
to file
.I to\^
on the local system.
If
.I to\^
is omitted,
the
.I from\^
argument is used in both places.
.TP
\f1~\f3%put\f2 \|from\f1 \|[\|\f2to\f1\|]
copy file
.I from\^
(on local system)
to file
.I to\^
on remote system.
If
.I to\^
is omitted, the
.I from\^
argument is used in both places.
.TP
\&~~ .\|.\|.
send the line
\&~ .\|.\|.
to the remote system.
.TP
.RB ~ %nostop
turn off the \s-1DC\s+1\&3/\s-1DC\s+1\&1
input control protocol for the remainder of the session.
This is useful in case the remote system is one which does
not respond properly to the \s-1DC\s+1\&3 and \s-1DC\s+1\&1 characters.
.TP
.RB ~ %break
send a BREAK to the remote system.
Pressing the BREAK key has the same effect.
.TP
.RB ~ %b
an abbreviation for
.RB ~ %break .
.PP
The
.I receive\^
process normally copies data from the remote system to its standard
output.
A line from the remote that begins with ~\f3>\fP initiates
an output diversion to a file.
The complete sequence is:
.PP
.RS
\&~\f3>\fP\^[\^\f3>\fP\^]\^\f3:\fP\^\|\f2file\fP
.br
zero or more lines to be written to
.I file\^
.br
.RB ~ >
.RE
.PP
Data from the remote is diverted (or appended, if
.B >>
is used) to file.
The trailing ~\f3>\fP terminates the diversion.
.PP
The use of
.RB ~ %put
requires
.IR stty\^ (1)
and
.IR cat\^ (1)
on the remote side.
It also requires that the
current erase and kill characters on the remote
system be identical to the current ones on the local system.
Backslashes are inserted at appropriate places.
.PP
The use of
.RB ~ %take
requires the existence of
.IR echo\^ (1)
and
.IR cat\^ (1)
on the remote system.
Also,
.B stty tabs
mode should be set on the remote system if
tabs are to be copied without expansion.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
cu -s 1200 7778888
.PP
attempts to connect to the telephone line numbered "7778888"
at 1200 baud rate.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/uucp/L-devices
.br
/usr/spool/uucp/\s-1LCK\s+1..\f2tty-device\f1
.br
/dev/null
.SH SEE ALSO
cat(1), ct(1C), echo(1), stty(1), uucp(1C).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit code is zero for normal exit,
non-zero (various values) otherwise.
.SH BUGS
When transferring files, characters may be dropped if there is
any activity, e.g., typing a command or listing a file, on another
textport or terminal. There is also an artificial slowing of
transmission by \f2cu\f1 during the 
.RB ~ %put
operation to further reduce the likelihood of data loss.
.PP
\f2cu\f1 buffers input internally.\f1
.\"	@(#)cu.1c	5.1 of 11/17/83
.\"	$Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/cu.1c,v $
.\"	@(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\"	$Date: 89/03/27 16:44:50 $
