'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CUBE 1D
.SH NAME
cube \- real-time display of famous cube puzzle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/people/demos/cube
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Cube\^
displays a moving, rotating, 3-D model of the well-known Rubik's cube puzzle.
As the cube changes, the viewpoint translates in and out and moves around
and around the object.
Hidden surfaces are removed in real time.
The mouse valuators and buttons control the display.
.PP
The motion will continue with the system unattended.
This allows the program to be used as a stress test for the geometry system.
.SS Automatic Operation
.PP
For automatic operation of the cube, use the menu at the top left.
Move the cursor to the menu entry for the desired mode;
press and release the right mouse button to select it.
The
.I rotate
mode makes the cube alter itself while the viewpoint's altitude and
azimuth change.
.I Translate
makes the viewpoint move back and forth.
.I Both
and
.I Freeze
do as one would expect.
.SS Manual Operation
.PP
First select
.IR Freeze .
The cube will come to rest as soon as its current internal motion is
complete.
.PP
To rotate a surface of the cube, put the cursor on it.
Press the left mouse button to rotate the surface counterclockwise; the right
one to turn it clockwise.
If the side you wish to rotate is not visible, hold down the middle button and
move the cursor.
This changes viewing altitude and azimuth to bring the hidden surfaces into
view.
.PP
The middle menu and the right button can tie the middle button
to distance and field of
view rather than altitude and azimuth.
.PP
.I Quit
terminates the program.
.I Reset
initializes the program and, incidentally, solves the cube.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Herb Kuta and Kurt Akeley
.SH "HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS"
Eight bitplanes and 1.5 Megabytes of memory are necessary.
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/cube.1d,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:44:51 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	cube.1d,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:44:51  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.1  84/12/11  13:35:37  bob
.\" Initial revision
.\" 
