'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CURVE 1D
.SH NAME
curve \- fast interactive cubic curve display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/people/demos/curve
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Curve\^
rapidly draws any of several cubic curves.
All control uses the mouse and mouse buttons.
.PP
To change the display, press the right mouse button to display a popup menu.
Move the cursor till the menu option you select is highlighted and release
the button.
To get rid of the menu without changing the display, move the cursor clear of
the menu and release the button.
.PP
.I Add Point
and
.I Delete Point
place basis points on the plane.
To add one or more points, select
.I Add
.IR Point ,
move the cursor to the point locations, and press the left mouse button once
for each new point.
Each point will be labeled with a marker.
As soon as four or more points are selected, they cubic curve they determine
with the current basis is drawn.
If
.I "Delete Point"
is selected, the nearest basis point to the cursor and the portion of the
curve affected by that point are colored.
left mouse button will delete the point.
.PP
In
.I Move Point
mode, the point nearest the cursor and the affected part of the curve are
colored.
The left mouse button will move the point to the cursor.
Hold the left mouse button down to drag the curve.
.PP
Select
.I Motion
to give each point a random direction and velocity.
Select
.I Freeze
to stop it.
.I
.IR Basis ,
.IR Linestyle ,
and
.IR Precision
each present their own popup menus.
Vary their parameters with the right mouse button.
Return to the main menu from any of these with
.IR Quit .
.PP
.I Markers Off
turns off the basis point markers.
.I Markers On
restores them.
.I Smear
simulates families of curves.
.I No Smear
restores the single curve.
.I 3\-D
and
.I 2\-D
select a 3-D box or the initial plane for the display.
.PP
.I Initialize
reselects the initial state.
.I Quit
(from the main menu) terminates the program.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Rocky Rhodes and Herb Kuta
.SH BUGS
.PP
The Bezier curve looks wrong if more than four points are specified.
It is not.
It is discontinuous, but that's the way M. Bezier designed it.
.SH "HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS"
Eight bitplanes and 1.5 Megabytes of memory are required to run
.IR curve .
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/curve.1d,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:44:52 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	curve.1d,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:44:52  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.1  84/12/11  13:35:44  bob
.\" Initial revision
.\" 
