'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DATE 1
.SH NAME
date \- print and set the date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B date
[ \f3+\fPformat ]
.br
.B date
[
.B \-n
]
mmddhhmm[.ss][yy]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If no argument is given,
or if the argument begins with \f3+\fP,
the current date and time are printed.
Otherwise, the current date is set.
The first
.I mm\^
is the month number;
.I dd\^
is the day number in the month;
.I hh\^
is the hour number (24 hour system);
the second
.I mm\^
is the minute number;
.I ss\^
is the second number, which must be preceded with a period, and is optional;
.I yy\^
is the last 2 digits of the year number and is optional.
The current year is the default if no year is mentioned.
.PP
If 
.IR timed (1M)
is running on the machine, the date is set on all machines in the
network which are also running
.IR timed .
However, the 
.B \-n
flag means ``no network'', i.e., it does not set the date for all the
machines on the network.
The system operates in \s-1GMT\s0;
.I date\^
takes care of the conversion to and from
local standard and daylight time.
.PP
If the argument begins with \f3+\fP,
the output of
.I date\^
is under the control of the user.
The format for the output is similar to that of
the first argument to
.IR printf (3S).
All output fields are of fixed size (zero padded
if necessary).
Each field descriptor is preceded by \f3%\fP
and will be replaced in the output by
its corresponding value.
A single \f3%\fP is encoded by \f3%%\fP.
All other
characters are copied to the output without change.
The string is always terminated with a new-line character.
.PP
Field Descriptors:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B  n
insert a new-line character
.TP 5
.B  t
insert a tab character
.TP 5
.B  m
month of year \- 01 to 12
.TP 5
.B  d
day of month \- 01 to 31
.TP 5
.B  y
last 2 digits of year \- 00 to 99
.TP 5
.B D
date as mm/dd/yy
.TP 5
.B  H
hour \- 00 to 23
.TP 5
.B  M
minute \- 00 to 59
.TP 5
.B  S
second \- 00 to 59
.TP 5
.B T
time as \s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1
.TP 5
.B  j
day of year \- 001 to 366
.TP 5
.B  w
day of week \- Sunday = 0
.TP 5
.B  a
abbreviated weekday \- Sun to Sat
.TP 5
.B  h
abbreviated month \- Jan to Dec
.TP 5
.B  r
time in
.SM AM/PM 
notation
.TP 5
.B  z
abbreviated time-zone, lower-case
.TP 5
.B  Z
abbreviated time-zone, upper-case
.RE
.ne 8
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
date \-n 10080045.1787
.RE
.PP
sets the date on the local machine only to Oct 8, 12:45:17 \s-1AM\s+1, 1987.
Issuing
.RS
date\| '+DATE: %m/%d/%y%nTIME: %H:%M:%S'
.RE
.PP
immediately afterwards generates the output:
.PP
.RS
DATE: 10/08/87
.br
TIME: 12:45:20
.RE
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP "\w'\f2bad\ format\ character\ \ \fP'u"
.I No permission\^
if
you aren't the super-user and you try to change the date;
.TP
.I bad conversion\^
if the date set is syntactically incorrect;
.TP
.I bad format character\^
if the field
descriptor is not recognizable.
.SH FILES
/dev/kmem
.SH SEE ALSO
timed(1M).
.SH WARNING
It is a bad practice to change the date while the system is
running multi-user.
