'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DBLIST 1
.SH NAME
dblist \- list information about the database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B
dblist
.I
database-name 
[
.B
\-l 
] [
.B
\-p 
] 
.I
new-database-name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
With no arguments,
.I
dblist
simply lists the keys of every item in the database.
.PP
The 
.B
\-l
option causes 
.I dblist 
to print the internal information from the
database.
.PP
The 
.B
\-p
option causes the key and content of every entry to be listed in a 
shell command file in the form of a
.I
dbadd
command.  If
.I
new-database-name
is provided, it becomes the database argument for the 
.I dbadd
commands; otherwise
.I
database-name
is used.  
.PP 
This form of the 
.I dblist
command is very handy; it forms a 
readable ASCII file representation of a database for editing or
shipping.  Additionally, databases should be recreated periodically
for purposes of garbage collection.  To do this, the file can be 
executed directly, in which case the
.I
dbadd
commands are executed to rebuild the database; or it can be used as
the argument to the
.I
dbbuild
command.
.PP
For information on the 
Emacs
database facility, see the following documents:
.PP
.RS 5
.I
Emacs Reference Manual
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
Several utilities, in addition to dblist,
are provided for manipulating the Emacs databases outside of Emacs.
.IP "dbcreate(1)" 17
creates a database.
.IP "dbadd(1)" 17
adds an entry to a database.
.IP "dbbuild(1)" 17
builds a database from a shell command file.
.IP "dbprint(1)" 17
prints the contents of a database entry.
