'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ~
.ds P UNIX
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\f1\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\f1]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS .3i
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\\f1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS .3i
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS .3i
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\f1[\f2\\$2\f1]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS .3i
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\f2\\$2\f1
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.ds W)  \f2\s-1WARNINGS\s+1\f1
.ds M)  \f3\s-1MR\s+1\f1
.ds S)  \s-1SCCS\s+1
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s+1
.TH DELTA 1
.SH NAME
delta \- make a delta (change) to an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B delta
.SP r SID ]
.SF s
.SF n
.SP g list]
.SP m \%[mrlist] ]
.SP y \%[comment] ]
.SF p
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Delta\^
is used to permanently introduce into
the named \*(S) file changes that were made to the file retrieved by
.IR get\^ (1)
(called the
.IR g-file ,
or generated file).
.PP
.I Delta\^
makes a delta to each named \*(S) file.
If a directory is named,
.I delta\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \f3s.\f1)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \f3\-\f1 is given, the standard input is read
(see \*(W));
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
.PP
.I Delta\^
may issue prompts on the standard output depending upon
certain keyletters specified and flags
(see
.IR admin\^ (1))
that may be
present in the \*(S) file
(see
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters below).
.PP
Keyletter arguments
apply independently
to each named file.
.A2 r SID Uniquely
identifies which delta is to be made to the \*(S) file.
The use of this keyletter is necessary only if two or more
outstanding
.IR get s
for editing
.RB ( "get \-e" )
on the same \*(S) file were done by the same person
(login name).
The \*(I) value specified with the
.B \-r
keyletter can be either the \*(I) specified on the
.I get\^
command line or the \*(I) to be made as reported by the
.I get\^
command
(see
.IR get\^ (1)).
A diagnostic results if the specified \*(I) is ambiguous, or,
if necessary and omitted on the command line.
.AR s Suppresses
the issue on the standard output of the created delta's \*(I),
as well as the number of lines inserted, deleted and unchanged in the
\*(S) file.
.AR n Specifies retention of the edited
.I g-file\^
(normally removed at completion of delta processing).
.A2 g list Specifies
a \f2list\f1 (see
.IR get\^ (1)
for the definition of \f2list\f1)
of deltas which are to be
.I ignored\^
when the file is accessed at the change level (\*(I))
created by this delta.
.A1 m mrlist If
the \*(S) file has the
.B v
flag set
(see
.IR admin\^ (1))
then a Modification Request (\*(M)) number \f2must\f1 be
supplied as the reason for creating the new delta.
.C1 \& If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.SM
.B MR\*Ss?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The
.SM
.B MR\*Ss?
prompt always precedes the
.B comments?
prompt
(see
.B \-y
keyletter).
.PP
.C1 \& \*(M)s
in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \*(M) list.
.C1 \& Note
that if the
.B v
flag has a value
(see
.IR admin\^ (1)),
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which will validate
the correctness of the \*(M) numbers.
If a non-zero exit status is returned from \*(M) number validation program,
.I delta\^
terminates
(it is assumed that the \*(M) numbers were not all valid).
.A1 y comment Arbitrary
text
used to describe the reason for making the delta.
A null string is considered a valid \f2comment\f1.
.C1 \& If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B comments?
is issued on the standard output before the standard
input is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no
prompt is issued.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the comment text.
.AR p Causes
.I delta\^
to print (on the standard output) the \*(S) file
differences before and after the delta is applied
in a
.IR diff\^ (1)
format.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
.nf
% delta s.test1.c
  comments?  second version
  1.2
  1 inserted
  0 deleted
  12 unchanged
.fi
.PP
does a 
.I delta\^
on file "test1.c".
.SH FILES
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w`/usr/bin/bdiff\ \ \ `u"
g-file
Existed
before the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
p-file
Existed
before the execution of
.IR delta ;
may exist after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
q-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
x-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
renamed to \*(S) file after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
z-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed during the execution of
.IR delta .
.TP
d-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
/usr/bin/bdiff
Program to compute differences
between the ``gotten'' file and the
.IR g-file .
.PD
.SH WARNINGS
Lines beginning with an \s-1\f3SOH\fP ASCII\s+1 character (binary 001)
cannot be placed in the \*(S) file unless the
.SM
.B SOH
is escaped.
This character has special meaning to \*(S)
(see
.I sccsfile\c\^
(5)) and will cause an error.
.PP
A
.I get\^
of many \*(S) files,
followed by a
.I delta\^
of those files, should be avoided when the
.I get\^
generates a large amount of data.
Instead,
multiple
.I "get/delta\^"
sequences should be used.
.PP
If the standard input
(\f3\-\f1)
is specified on the
.I delta\^
command line,
the
.B \-m
(if necessary)
and
.B \-y
keyletters
.I must\^
also be present.
Omission of these keyletters causes an error to occur.
.PP
Comments are limited to text strings of at most 512 characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
admin(1),
bdiff(1),
cdc(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1),
rmdel(1),
sccsfile(4).
.br
.\".I "Source Code Control System User's Guide"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help\^ (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)delta.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
