'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DEROFF 1
.SH NAME
deroff \- remove nroff/troff, tbl, and eqn constructs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deroff
.RB [\0 \-m x\0]
.RB [\0 \-w \0]
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Deroff\^
reads each
of the
.I files\^
in sequence
and removes all
.IR troff\^ (1)
requests, macro calls, backslash constructs,
.IR eqn\^ (1)
constructs
(between
.SM
.B \&.EQ
and
.SM
.B \&.EN
lines, and between
delimiters),
and
.IR tbl\^ (1)
descriptions,
perhaps replacing them with white
space (blanks and blank lines),
and writes the remainder of the file on the standard output.
.I Deroff\^
follows chains of included files
.RB ( .so
and
.B \&.nx
.I troff\^
commands);
if a file has already been included, a
.B \&.so
naming that file
is ignored and a
.B \&.nx
naming that file
terminates execution.
If no input file is given,
.I deroff\^
reads the standard input.
.PP
The
.B \-m
option may be followed by an
.BR m ,
.BR s ,
or
.BR l .
The
.B \-mm
option causes the macros be
interpreted so that only
running text
is output
(i.e., no text
from macro lines.)\ 
The
.B \-ml
option
forces the
.B \-mm
option and also
causes deletion of lists associated with the
.B mm
macros.
.PP
If the
.B \-w
option is given, the output is a word list, one ``word''
per line, with all other characters deleted.
Otherwise, the output follows the original, with the deletions mentioned
above.
In text, a ``word'' is any string
that
.I contains\^
at least two letters and
is composed
of letters, digits, ampersands
.RB ( & ),
and
apostrophes
.RB ( \^'\^ );
in a macro call,
however,
a ``word'' is a string that
.I begins\^
with at least
two letters and contains a total of at least
three letters.
Delimiters are any characters other than
letters, digits, apostrophes,
and ampersands.
Trailing apostrophes and ampersands are removed from ``words.''
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
deroff textfile
.PP
removes all 
.IR nroff ,
.IR troff ,
and macro definitions from "textfile".
.SH SEE ALSO
eqn(1), nroff(1), tbl(1), troff(1).
.SH BUGS
.I Deroff\^
is not a complete
.I troff\^
interpreter,
so it can be confused by subtle constructs.
Most such errors result in too much rather than too little output.
.br
The
.B \-ml
option does not handle nested lists correctly.
.\"	@(#)deroff.1	5.1 of 10/27/83
