'\"macro stdmacro
.\".if t .ds ' \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\'\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if t .ds ' '
.if n .ds ' '
.\".if t .ds ` \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\`\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if t .ds ` `
.if n .ds ` `
.TH DIFFMK 1
.SH NAME
diffmk \- mark differences between files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diffmk
name1 name2 name3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diffmk\^
compares two versions of a file and creates a
third file that includes ``change mark'' commands for
.IR nroff\^ (1)
or
.IR troff\^ (1).
.I Name1\^
and
.I name2\^
are the old and new versions of the file.
.I Diffmk\^
generates
.IR name3 ,
which contains the lines of
.I name2\^
plus inserted formatter ``change mark''
.RB ( .mc )
requests.
When
.I name3\^
is formatted,
changed or inserted text is shown by \||\| at the right
margin of each line.
The position of deleted text is shown by a single
.BR \(** .
.PP
If the characters \||\| and
.B \(**
are inappropriate,
a copy of
.I diffmk\^
can be edited to change them
.RI ( diffmk\^
is a shell script).
.PP
If anyone is so inclined,
.I diffmk\^
can be used to produce listings of C (or other)
programs with changes marked.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
diffmk \|old.c \|new.c \|tmp; \|nroff \|macs \|tmp\| | \|pr
.PP
produces a listing of two versions of a C program with changes marked.
First the two versions are compared and a new file, "tmp", is
created containing the 
.I change 
.I mark\^ 
commands.  The temporary file
is then passed to 
.IR nroff\^ (1)
using the file "macs" which contains:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&.pl \|1
\&.ll \|77
\&.nf
\&.eo
\&.ne \|\*`
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B \&.ll
request might specify a different line length, depending on the
nature of the program being printed.
The
.B \&.eo
and
.B \&.ne
requests are probably needed only for C programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
diff(1), nroff(1), troff(1).
.SH BUGS
Aesthetic considerations may dictate manual adjustment of some output.
File differences involving only formatting requests may produce undesirable
output,
i.e., replacing
.B \&.sp
by
.B \&.sp 2
will
produce a ``change mark'' on the preceding or following line of output.
.\"	@(#)diffmk.1	5.1 of 10/31/83
