'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DIFF 1 
.SH NAME
diff \- differential file comparator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diff
[
.B \-efbh
] file1 file2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I diff\^
tells what lines must be changed in two files to bring them
into agreement.
If
.I file1\^
.RI ( file2 )
is
.BR \- ,
the standard input is used.
If
.I file1\^
.RI ( file2 )
is a directory, then a file in that directory with the name
.I file2\^
.RI ( file1 )
is used.
The normal output contains lines of these forms:
.IP "" 5
.I n1\^
.B a
.I n3,n4\^
.br
.I n1,n2\^
.B d
.I n3\^
.br
.I n1,n2\^
.B c
.I n3,n4\^
.PP
These lines resemble
.I ed\^
commands to convert
.I file1\^
into
.IR file2 .
The numbers after the letters pertain to
.IR file2 .
In fact, by exchanging
.B a
for
.B d
and reading backward one may ascertain equally how to convert 
.I file2\^
into
.IR file1 .
As in 
.IR ed ,
identical pairs where
.I n1\^
=
.I n2\^
or
.I n3\^
=
.I n4\^
are abbreviated as a single number.
.PP
Following each of these lines come all the lines that are
affected in the first file flagged by \f3<\fP, 
then all the lines that are affected in the second file
flagged by \f3>\fP.
.PP
The
.B \-b
option causes
trailing blanks (spaces and tabs) to be ignored
and other strings of blanks to compare equal.
.PP
The
.B \-e
option produces a script of
.IR a ,
.I c\^
and 
.I d\^
commands for the editor
.IR ed ,
which will recreate
.I file2\^
from
.IR file1 .
The
.B \-f
option produces a similar script,
not useful with
.IR ed ,
in the opposite order.
In connection with
.BR \-e ,
the following shell program may help maintain
multiple versions of a file.
Only an ancestral file ($1) and a chain of 
version-to-version
.I ed\^
scripts ($2,$3,...) made by
.I diff\^
need be on hand.
A ``latest version'' appears on
the standard output.
.IP "" 5
(shift; cat $\(**; echo '1,$p') \(bv ed \- $1
.PP
Except in rare circumstances,
.I diff\^
finds a smallest sufficient set of file
differences.
.PP
Option
.B \-h
does a fast, half-hearted job.
It works only when changed stretches are short
and well separated,
but does work on files of unlimited length.
Options 
.B \-e
and
.B \-f
are unavailable with
.BR \-h .
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
diff \-e file1 file2
.PP
where ``file1'' and ``file2'' are two versions of the manual text
for the 
.I cp\^
command,
produces:
.IP
.nf
35,41d
.br
27c
.br
In the second form, one or more
.IP
18,25c
existed; the mode of the source file
is used otherwise.
.br
.IP
15c
.br
The mode and owner of  
.IP
.br
10c
.br
file ... directory
.IP
.br
7c
.br
file1 file2
.IP
.br
1,3c
.br
\ .TH CP 1
\ .SH NAME
.fi
.PP
Following this,
.I ed\^
script would transform
"file1" into file2",
line for
line and character for character.
.SH FILES
/tmp/d?????
.br
/usr/lib/diffh	for 
.B \-h
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cmp(1), comm(1), ed(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 for no differences, 1 for some differences, 2 for trouble.
.SH BUGS
Editing scripts produced under the
.BR \-e " or"
.BR \-f " option are naive about"
creating lines consisting of a single period (\f3.\fP).
.\"	@(#)diff.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
