'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DIFF3 1 
.SH NAME
diff3 \- 3-way differential file comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diff3
[
.B \-ex3
]
file1 file2 file3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diff3\^
compares three versions of a file,
and publishes disagreeing ranges of text
flagged with these codes:
.RS .3i
.TP "\w'\f3f :\f2 n1 , n2 \f3c\f1\ \ 'u"
====
all three files differ
.TP
====1
.IR file1\^ " is different"
.TP
====2
.IR file2\^ " is different"
.TP
====3
.IR file3\^ " is different"
.RE
.PP
The type of change suffered in converting a given range
of a given file to some other is
indicated in one of these ways:
.RS .3i
.TP "\w'\f3f :\f2 n1 , n2 \f3c\f1\ \ 'u"
.IB f " : " n1 " a"
Text is to be appended after line number
.I n1\^
in file
.IR f ,
where
.I f\^
= 1, 2, or 3.
.TP
.IB f " : " n1 " , " n2 " c"
Text is to be
changed in the range line
.I n1\^
to line
.IR n2 .
If 
.I n1\^
=
.IR n2 ,
the range may be abbreviated to
.IR n1 .
.RE
.PP
The original contents of the range follows immediately
after a
.B c
indication.
When the contents of two
files are identical, the contents of the lower-numbered
file is suppressed.
.PP
Under the
.B \-e
option,
.I diff3\^
publishes a script for the editor
.I ed\^
that will incorporate into
.I file1\^
all changes between
.I file2\^
and
.IR file3 ,
i.e., the changes that normally would be flagged ==== and ====3.
Option
.B \-x
(\f3\-3\f1)
produces a script to incorporate
only changes flagged ==== (====3).
The following command will apply the resulting script to
.IR file1 .
.IP
(cat script; echo '1,$p') \(bv ed \- file1
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
If file "f1" contains the following text:
.RS
.nf
This is a file.
This is the first of three files.
This is not the last file.
.RE
.bp
.PP
and file "f2" contains:
.RS
.nf
This is a file.
This is the second of three files.
This is not the last file.
.RE
.PP
and file "f3" contains:
.RS
.nf
This is a file.
This is the third of three files.
This is the last file.
.RE
.PP
then
.IP
diff3 f1 f2 f3
.PP
will return
.RS
.nf
====
1:2,3c
.RS .3i
This is the first of three files.
This is not the last file.
.RE
2:2,3c
.RS .3i
This is the second of three files.
This is not the last file.
.RE
3:2,3c
.RS .3i
This is the third of three files.
This is the last file
.RE
.RE
.SH FILES
/tmp/d3\(**
.br
/usr/lib/diff3prog
.SH "SEE ALSO"
diff(1).
.SH BUGS
Text lines that consist of a single \f3.\fP will
defeat
.BR \-e .
.br
Files longer than 64K bytes won't work.
.\"	@(#)diff3.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
