'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DOG 1D
.SH NAME
dog \- cooperative or competitive flight simulator and airshow generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.B /usr/people/demos/dog 
[\ 
.B \-i 
infile
\ ] [\ 
.B \-o 
outfile\ ]
.in
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The 
.I dog
demonstration program
is an enhanced version of the
.IR flight (1D)
demonstration program for use on multiple IRIS workstation systems.
Each IRIS determines the position of its aircraft several times a second, 
broadcasts the plane's location and orientation to the other IRIS systems
running
.IR dog ,
and listens to the other planes' locations.
All known planes in the current field of view are displayed on all systems.
.PP
If neither 
.BR \-i  nor 
.B \-o 
is selected, the broadcast medium is the Ethernet.
Otherwise, the media are the specified files.
Ethernet is assumed for the combat described below.
For the file options, see
.I Airshow Option.
.PP
Pilots may cooperate by attempting formation aerobatics or compete by trying
to shoot each other down.
The coordinates of projectiles are included in the Ethernet packets, hits are
detected, and scoring is maintained.
.SH Weapons
.PP
Fighters are armed with rockets, sidewinders, and cannon.  
The number of rockets and sidewinders available on each type of fighter are
indicated on the help display. Landings replenish missiles as well as fuel.
The number of missiles replenished depends on the quality of the
landing (see
.IR flight (1D).
Ammunition for the cannon is inexhaustible.
.PP
Each weapon has a different kill radius. Weapons detonate themselves when
they are within their kill radius of a plane other than the one they came
from.  All planes within the kill radius of an exploding weapon are
destroyed.
.PP
The
.I q
key fires a rocket.
Rockets have about ten seconds of fuel and follow ballistic paths after the
fuel is exhausted.  They explode when they strike the ground, come within
range of an aircraft (except the one they came from), or are destroyed by 
their owner.  Rockets have the largest kill radius of all the weapons.
.PP
The
.I w
key fires a sidewinder.
Sidewinders are like rockets but track, or steer themselves towards, other
aircraft if they are ``locked on''.
Sidewinders are locked on if they are fired while a target aircraft is
in the orange tracking rectangle or if locked on with the 
.I t 
key.
The
.I t
key
identifies the target and locks a sidewinder onto the target for one second 
without firing the weapon.  This is useful for identifying other planes as
friend or foe. Sidewinders will not lock on aircraft lower than 150 feet, but
once they are locked on, they will track a plane below 150 feet.
Sidewinders stop tracking and follow ballistic paths when they run out of
fuel. The Cessna 150 does not generate enough heat to attract sidewinders.
A good pilot can usually outmaneuver a sidewinder unless his plane is
traveling slowly with a heavy load.  Sidewinders have a smaller kill radius
than rockets.
.PP
The
.I e
key fires a cannon round.
The cannon has a limited range\(emeach cannon shell exists for only one
second. Cannons have the smallest kill radius.
.PP
The
.I r
key destroys the current missile.  Any aircraft in range of the explosion
is destroyed. Each aircraft can have only one projectile in the air at a time.
Thus, you can destroy missiles that have missed their targets allowing new
ones to be fired.
In
.IR flight ,
or in
.I dog
with no competition, strafing the airport can be good practice for the real
thing.
.SH Scoring
.PP
.I dog
keeps track of victories and defeats.
A pilot scores a ``won'' when a projectile fired by his plane destroys another
aircraft.  A pilot scores a ``lost'' when his aircraft is destroyed by a
projectile or crashes.
.PP
Each pilot's score is displayed on his instrument panel.
The scores of all the current players are shown to each new player when he
joins the game and when he reincarnates himself after destruction.
.PP
When a player joins the game, an announcement is broadcast to all players.
Messages are also broadcast whenever a player quits, destroys another plane,
or is destroyed.
.SH Airshow Option
The 
.B \-o 
option
will record the path of your aircraft on 
.I outfile
rather than broadcasting it to the network.
.PP
The 
.B \-i
option
replays a recorded flight.
You will be in another aircraft, able to join the other recorded
planes in formation or shoot at, but not destroy them.
.PP
Specifying both
the
.B \-i
and
.B \-o
options
replays a recorded flight and produces an
.I outfile
containing your aircraft's path as well as the other planes' paths.
.I infile
and
.I outfile
cannot be the same file.
Repeated use of the command can make formations of many aircraft.
.SH SEE ALSO
flight(1D), radar(1D), shadow(1D)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Gary Tarolli
.SH NOTES
.PP
Various kinds of cheating are possible, e.g., temporarily selecting the
night display to better see a distant opponent's exhaust.
Some scrupulous pilots avoid operations not possible in real aircraft.
Others use every trick possible.
.PP
The Cessna 150 and B-747 have 20mm cannon.
This is inaccurate but amusing in the C-150 (the 747 is much too sluggish).
Try taking off in the C-150 and flying around the runway, picking off
opponents as they appear.  Since the Cessna does not attract
sidewinders, it has a chance to survive.
If you make a mistake and take off in the 747, you are dogmeat.
.SH BUGS
.PP
The cannon ammunition should be finite and the cannon
should overheat and jam if used too often.
.PP
.I dog
core dumps if more than 15 planes join the game.
