'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DU 1
.SH NAME
du \- summarize disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B du
[
.B \-Lars
] [ names ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I du\^
gives the number of kbytes
(one kbyte equals 1024 bytes)
contained in all files,
directories within
each directory and files
specified by
the
.I names\^
argument.  It also recursively searches directories within each directory.
The count does not include indirect blocks.
If
.I names\^
is missing,
the current directory, 
.BR . , 
is used.
.PP
The optional argument
.B \-s
causes only the grand total
(for each
of the specified
.IR names )
to be given.
The optional argument
.B \-a
causes an entry to be generated
for each file.
Absence of either causes an entry to be generated for
each directory only.
.PP
.I du\^
is normally silent about directories that cannot be read,
files that cannot be opened, etc.
The
.B \-r
option will cause
.I du\^
to generate messages in such instances.
.PP
The optional argument
.B \-L
causes symbolic links to be followed
(by default they are not followed).
.PP
A file with two or more links is only counted once.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
du dir1 dir2
.PP
produces a count of the number of kbytes in each of the directories.
In order to see how many kbytes are in each file, the 
.B \-a
option must be used.
.SH BUGS
If the
.B \-a
option is not used,
non-directories
given as arguments
are not listed.
.PP
If there are too many distinct linked files,
.I du\^
will count the excess files more than once.
.PP
Files with holes (holey files) are counted incorrectly.
.\"	@(#)du.1	5.1 of 10/27/83
