'\"macro stdmacro
.TH EDGE 1G
.SH NAME
edge \- window-based debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B edge
[\ 
.B \-r
\ ] [\ 
.B \-i
\ ] [\ 
.BR \-I\0 dir
\ ] [\  
.BR \-c\0 file
\ ] [\ objfile\ ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2Edge\f1\^
is a window-based interface to \f2dbx\f1(1).
.I Objfile
is an object file that you create by using the \f3\-g\f1 flag when you compile
your FORTRAN or C source code.
When you start \f2edge\f1,
it creates three windows: the \f2dbx\f1
command window, the source window, and the user input/output window.
The \f2dbx\f1 window contains the \f2dbx\f1
prompt. You can use the typical \f2dbx\f1
commands here. This window also contains
buttons for sending commands to \f2dbx\f1.
The user window, stdin/stdout/stderr,
acts as the user program's input and output window.
The source window contains the user program's source code.
You can resize, reshape and move these windows by pressing and holding the
right mouse button in the title bar. This produces the \f2mex\f1(1G)
menu.
See below for more information on windows.
.PP
Arguments to \f2edge\f1
are the same as those to \f2dbx\f1.
.SS The Dbx Window
See \f2dbx\f1(1)
for the line interface in this window. You use the buttons in this window by
moving the cursor over the item you want to select, then pressing the left
mouse button. The buttons invoke these commands:
.IP \f3rerun\f1
Sends the \f3rerun\f1
command to \f2dbx\f1.
\f2Edge\f1 uses arguments you specified for the last \f3run\f1
command to rerun your program.
.IP \f3stop\f1
Sets a breakpoint at the currently
selected line in the source window. Selecting text
in the source window is discussed below.
.IP \f3step\f1
Single steps one source line.
.IP \f3next\f1
Single steps one source line, but skips over function and subroutine calls.
.IP \f3cont\f1
Continues execution.
.IP \f3print\f1
Prints the value of the variable selected in the source window.
.IP \f3where\f1
Prints a stack trace from the current point of execution.
.IP \f3trace\f1
Traces execution of all source lines.
The currently executing line is highlighted in green in the source window.
.IP \f3interrupt\f1
Sends an interrupt to \f2dbx\f1.
.IP \f3sh\f1
Forks a shell in a window.
The environment variable
.SM SHELL
determines which shell is used.
.IP \f3quit\f1
Exits from \f2edge\f1.
.PP
When you press the the right mouse button over any \f2edge\f1 window, you see
a menu with the following choices:
.IP \f3attach\f1
Attaches input focus to the window.
.IP \f3select\f1
Pops and attaches to the window.
.IP \f3edit\f1
Lets you edit a source file. This choice contains a sub-menu that lists the
source files that make up your program. Slide the cursor to the right
to see the sub-menu, then select the file you want to edit. This invokes
the editor specified by the $EDIT environment variable on the
selected file.
.IP \f3file\f1
Lets you read another source file into the source window. This choice contains
a sub-menu that lists the source
files that make up your program. Select the file you
want displayed in the source window.
.SS The Source Window
The source window displays your source. The currently
executing line is highlighted in green. Breakpoints are highlighted in red.
Selected text is highlighted in yellow. Select text by pressing
and holding
the left mouse button, dragging the cursor over the text to be selected, then
releasing the mouse button. When you use the \f3file\f1 or \f3/\f1 commands
in the \f2dbx\f1 window, the results  will be reflected in the source window.
The title bar of this window contains the name of the file being
displayed.
.SS The User window.
This window acts as the user program's stdin/stdout/stderr.
.SS Edgerc syntax.
If the file \f3.edgerc\f1 exists in the current directory,
\f2edge\f1 reads it. The syntax for commands in the \f3.edgerc\f1 file follow:
.IP "\f3size\f1 window [rows] [columns]"
\f2window\f1 specifies either the dbx, source, or user
window.
\f2Rows\f1 specifies the number of rows the window should occupy,
and \f2columns\f1 specifies the number of columns the window should occupy.
If you do not specify \f2rows\f1 and \f2columns\f1, you
will be prompted to size and place your windows.
.IP "\f3origin\f1 window [xcoord] [ycoord]"
This command causes the specified window's origin to be at \f2xcoord, ycoord\f1.
If you do not specify \f2xcoord\f1 and \f2ycoord\f1, you will
be prompted to place your own windows.
.ne 10v
.IP "\f3color\f1 text background"
\f2Text\f1 and \f2background\f1 are integers that specify the 
color indices to be used for text and background.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/gsh\ \ \ 'u
a.out	default object file
.br
\&.edgerc	initialization commands
.br
/usr/lib/gsh	terminal emulator
.SH SEE ALSO
cc(1), f77(1), dbx(1)
.br
.I Getting Started with edge for C
.br
.I Getting Started with edge for FORTRAN
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Terhorst
.SH BUGS
\f2Edge\f1 uses the color indices 0-7. If you modify these, 
you modify \f2edge's\f1 colors.
