'\"macro stdmacro
.TH EMACS 1
.SH NAME
EMACS \- display editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B
EMACS
filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
EMACS
is a display editor used primarily for writing and modifying documents,
programs, or any other type of text.  
To interact with the user, EMACS uses a display 
which provides an accurate
representation of the text as it is being changed.
EMACS differs from other text editors in that the user
can dynamically change 
it to suit his own needs. 
.PP
EMACS divides a screen into several areas called
.I
windows,
thus allowing more than one file to be edited at one time.  
At the bottom of the terminal screen is a one-line area used for messages and
questions from EMACS.
.PP
EMACS commands usually consist of a combination of characters,
prefaced either by the
.B
control key
(^)
or the
.B
escape key
(ESC).
Each command has a long name that is bound to a
particular key.  For example, 
.I
forward-character
may be bound to the keys 
.B
control-F
.R
(^F).
.PP
To get help when using
EMACS,
the user can type the 
keys
.B
control 
and 
.B
underscore 
(^_),
which will cause 
EMACS 
to list the available help options.
These include a list of all functions and variables
that include a given key word (much like the Unix
command
.B 
apropos ),
a list of the available key bindings,
and detailed descriptions of EMACS features.
.PP
EMACS also has a tutorial for beginning users.
To run this tutorial, start EMACS as shown below,
and then type the help character (^_) followed by `t'.
.PP
For detailed information on how to use 
EMACS
and for the complete list of available commands, see the
following documents:
.PP
.RS 5
.I
EMACS User's Guide
.br
.I
EMACS Reference Manual
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
EMACS recognizes the following command line options.
Switches and file names can be intermixed on the command line, 
so to avoid ambiguity no spaces are allowed between switches 
and their arguments.  
.IP "-t<ttyname>" 17
causes EMACS to do its IO to the named tty.  <ttyname> is given
without the "/dev" prefix.
.IP "-e<funcname>" 17
causes EMACS to execute the named function when it starts up.
.IP "-l<filename>"
causes EMACS to load the named file when it starts up (this
is done before the processing for -e).  Such files are loaded even if the
-f switch is given.
.IP "-f" 17
fast start.  Inhibits loading of all default startup files.
Files explicitly specified with -l switch are still loaded.
.IP "-R" 17
all files are read-only.
.IP "-Lnnn" 17
specify the number of screen lines EMACS should use.  Useful if you are on
a slow dialup.  This overrides all other ideas EMACS may have had about how
big your screen is, except under some window managers (e.g., Suntools)
where Emacs automatically sizes its own windows to fit the window in which
it is running.
.IP "-Cnnn" 17
specify the number of screen columns EMACS should use.  This overrides
all other ideas EMACS may have had about how big your screen is, except
under some window managers (e.g., Suntools) where Emacs automatically sizes
its own windows to fit the window in which it is running.
.IP "-h[<1|0>]" 17
Turns the EMACS variable
.B
tty-mode-rare
on or off.  Omitting the number turns it on.  If
.B
tty-mode-rare
is on, EMACS will use a terminal input mode (loosely called "rare" mode)
that allows it to recognize an interrupt character (^G), and can
potentially use ^S/^Q for flow control if the terminal needs it (see the -x
option).
Flow control will actually be used only if the EMACS variable
.B
xon/xoff-flow-control
is turned on in some initialization file, e.g. .emacs_init, or by the -x
option.
The interrupt character allows you to interrupt long operations, such as
searches through large files, and to halt runaway MLisp code.
If
.B
tty-mode-rare
is zero, EMACS will use a "raw" input mode, in which neither the interrupt
character nor the flow control characters ^S and ^Q are treated specially.
.B
NOTE:
On 4.2bsd systems, "rare" mode uses the CBREAK mode of the terminal
driver.  This implies that the eighth bit (the "meta" bit) is stripped off
all input characters.  System V does not have this problem; all eight bits
are available in both raw and rare modes.  In rare mode, some systems
interpret BREAK as an additional interrupt character, which may make it
impossible to type ^@ (NUL) at EMACS (^@ is normally bound to push-mark).
.IP "-x[<1|0>]" 17
Turns both
.B
tty-mode-rare
and
.B
xon/xoff-flow-control
on or off.  Omitting the number turns them on.
Thus, the -x option implies the -h option (because flow control will work
only in "rare" mode).
If EMACS behaves as if you have typed ^S at it when you have done no such
thing (usually it displays "Search for:" in the minibuffer) then your
terminal or local net is probably typing ^S for you; try invoking EMACS
with the -x option.
This causes EMACS to instruct the terminal driver to use
XON/XOFF flow control, so that typing ^S suspends output until ^Q is typed.
(Normally, you wouldn't type those characters yourself; your terminal sends
them automatically when it needs time to catch up with the output.  Many
local networks also use this method of flow control.)
In this mode, ^S and ^Q are not available as EMACS commands, since the
terminal driver never lets them get through to EMACS.  
Even if the -x option is given, an initialization file may still disable
the use of flow control by explicitly turning off
.B
xon/xoff-flow-control.
.IP "+nnn" 17
start editing at line nnn.
.IP "+/pattern" 17
look for string (RE if full Emacs).
.SH SEE ALSO
Several "helper" utilities are provided with EMACS.  Some are intended to
be invoked directly by users to manipulate EMACS databases.  Others are
intended to be invoked by EMACS, invisibly to the user.  
.IP "loadst(1)" 17
time, load statistics, new mail indication.  Used by clock.ml package.
.IP "emacsedit(1)" 17
editor for use by programs run under EMACS shell windows.  Used by
process.ml package.
