'\"macro stdmacro
.TH EMACSEDIT 1
.SH NAME
emacsedit \- an editor for use in Emacs shell windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
emacsedit
.I
args
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I
emacsedit
is intended to be used as "the editor" that is invoked by programs running
under a shell window, such as \f2mail\f1(1).   It works in conjunction with the
process.ml (shell windows) package, which sets up an unexpected process
handler to catch EIPC messages.   When invoked, 
.I
emacsedit
tries to send an EIPC message to the Emacs session that is running on the
terminal specified by the environment variable EMACSEDIT_TTY (which is set
up by process.ml for shells running in shell windows).  The EIPC message
contains the arguments that were given to
.I
emacsedit.
The Emacs session will edit the file given by the argument in a recursive
edit.  When the recursive edit is exited (^C, ^X^C, etc.), Emacs will write
the file, send a message to the
.I
emacsedit
to let it know it has finished, and return to the shell window.
.PP
.I
emacsedit
can be used from outside of Emacs.
.I
emacsedit
simply starts up a fresh Emacs on the controlling terminal
if the environment variable EMACSEDIT_TTY is not set, or if the EIPC
connection cannot be made for some reason.  The lack of EMACSEDIT_TTY
means that this incarnation of
.I
emacsedit
was not invoked by an Emacs shell window.  It will start up a new Emacs on
the terminal.  If there is one already, they will fight for the terminal.
.PP
Failure to open a connection to the Emacs session running on this terminal
may mean one of the following:
.IP - 17
There is no Emacs session running on this terminal.
.I
emacsedit
starts one up and tries to send EIPC messages to it every two seconds
for a maximum of 40 seconds, after which it gives up and exits.
If the Emacs accepts the connection after it has started up, then
it will edit the message using the same mechanism invoked by
.I
emacsedit
from a shell window.  When you exit that mode via ^C, it writes your
message out and exits, returning you to the mail session.
.IP - 17
.I
emacsedit
was invoked from a shell window, but then the invoking Emacs session
refused to accept the connection.  This is almost certainly an accident;
Emacs should always be ready to accept connections from programs run within
shell windows.  In this case, starting up a new Emacs is clearly
the wrong thing to do...
.IP - 17
There was some other problem, such as insufficient system buffer space.
A new Emacs gets started even if there is already another one running.
If there is, they will wind up fighting for the terminal.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To use emacsedit as your editor in berkeley Mail under 4.2bsd, add a line
to your .mailrc file that reads as follows (using the path where emacsedit
resides on your system, of course):
.PP
    set VISUAL=/usr/lib/emacs/emacsedit
.PP
This causes the Mail program to invoke emacsedit on the text of the message
when you type ~v at the start of a line while typing in a new message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP "emacs(1)" 17
the Emacs editor
.SH BUGS
Starting up a fresh Emacs if the EIPC connection cannot be made is not
really the brightest thing for it to do, because the new Emacs winds up
fighting the existing one for the terminal.   Since that doesn't happen
that often, we'll have to live with it for now.  
