'\"macro stdmacro
.TH EX 1
.SH NAME
ex, edit \- text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-t 
tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
.BR \+command
]
name ...
.br
.B edit
[
ex options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ex\^
is the root of a family of editors:
.IR edit ,
.I ex\^
and
.IR vi .
.I Ex\^
is a superset of
.IR edit ,
with the most notable extension being a display editing facility.
Display based editing is the focus of
.IR vi .
.PP
If you have not used
.IR ed ,
or are a casual user, you will find that the editor
.I edit\^
is convenient for you.
It avoids some of the complexities of
.I ex\^
used mostly by systems programmers and persons very familiar with
.IR ed .
.PP
If you have a \s-2CRT\s0 terminal, you may wish to use a display
based editor; in this case
see
.IR vi\^ (1),
which is a command which focuses on the display editing portion of
.IR ex .
.PP
The following options are recognized:
.TP
.B \-
suppresses all interactive-user feedback, as when processing editor
scripts in command files.
.TP "\w'\f3\-v\f1\ \ 'u"
.B \-v
Equivalent to using
.I vi\^
rather than 
.IR ex .
.TP
.B \-t
Equivalent to an initial
.I tag\^
command, editing the file containing the
.I tag\^
and positioning the editor at its definition.
.TP
.B \-r
Used in recovering after an editor or system crash, retrieving
the last saved version of the named file.  If no file is
specified, a list of saved files will be reported.
.TP
.BI + command
Indicates that the editor should begin by executing the
specified command.  If
.I command\^
is omitted, then it defaults to $, positioning
the editor at the last line of the first file initially.
Other useful commands here are scanning patterns of the form
"/pat" or line numbers, e.g., +100 to start at line 100.
.PP
.I Name\^
arguments indicate files to be edited.
.SS Documentation
The document,
.IR "Edit: A tutorial\^",
provides a comprehensive introduction to
.I edit\^
assuming no previous knowledge of computers or the \s-2UNIX\s0 system.
.PP
The
.I "Ex Reference Manual\^"
is a comprehensive and complete manual for the command mode features
of
.IR ex ,
but you cannot learn to use the editor by reading it.
For an introduction to
more advanced forms of editing using the command mode of
.IR ex ,
see the editing documents written by Brian Kernighan for the editor
.IR ed ;
the material in the introductory and advanced documents works also with
.IR ex .
.PP
.I "An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi\^"
introduces the display editor
.I vi\^
and provides reference material on
.IR vi .
In addition, the
.I "Vi Quick Reference\^"
card summarizes the commands
of
.I vi\^
in a useful, functional way, and is useful with the
.IR Introduction .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/lib/ex3.7preserve\ \ \ \ 'u"
/usr/lib/ex3.7strings
error messages
.TP
/usr/lib/ex3.7recover
recover command
.TP
/usr/lib/ex3.7preserve
preserve command
.TP
/etc/termcap
describes capabilities of terminals
.TP
\&~/.exrc
editor startup command file, user- created in home directory
.TP
/tmp/EX\f2nnnnn\f1
editor temporary
.TP
/tmp/Rx\f2nnnnn\f1
named buffer temporary
.TP
/usr/preserve
preservation directory
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
ex text
.PP
would invoke the editor with the file named "text".  
.SH SEE ALSO
awk(1),
ed(1),
grep(1),
sed(1),
vi(1)
.SH BUGS
The
.I undo\^
command causes all marks to be lost on lines changed and then restored
if the marked lines were changed.
.PP
.I Undo\^
never clears the buffer modified condition.
.PP
The
.I z\^
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screen full of output may result if long lines are present.
.PP
File input/output errors don't print a name if the command line "\f3\-\f1"
option is used.
.PP
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.PP
The editor does not warn if text is placed in named buffers and not used
before exiting the editor.
.PP
Null characters are discarded in input files, and cannot appear in resultant
files.
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy and Mark Horton.
.\"	@(#)ex.1	5.1 of 11/18/83
