'\"macro stdmacro
.TH HEME 1D
.SH NAME
heme \- depthcued display of the Cytochrome P450 protein molecule
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/heme
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Dr. Tom Poulos and Prof. Joseph Kraut of the University of California at 
San Diego have constructed a computer model of
the Cytochrome P450 molecule to aid in their research into the structure
of this enzyme. Computer graphics help in
comparing electron density maps to the proposed protein structure by
moving the hypothetical structure into regions of high electron density.
Proximity of atoms provides information regarding chemical
interaction.
.PP
.I heme
displays the Cytochrome protein with control of viewing transformations
via pop-up menu selections. Also, display of various parts of the protein 
molecule can be toggled on and off.  When all portions are displayed,
the molecular model is comprised of 1022 points and 549 vectors.
.PP
Pop up the menu by holding down the CENTER mouse button. Menu selections are
are toggled by placing the cursor atop the menu selection and pressing the
LEFT mouse button. The menu disappears when the CENTER mouse button is 
released.
.sp
.nf
.na
	Left 	Function
.br
	Menu
.sp
	5	Amino acids that interact with the heme group.
.br
	4 	Backbone of P450, connecting alpha-carbons
		of amino acid subunits.
.br 
	3	Electron density contour around the iron atom.         	
.br
	2 	Van der Waals surface of the heme group.
.br
	1 	The heme group, the subunit which accepts
		and donates electrons.
.fi
.ad
.sp
.PP
The right menu is a series of glyphs which specify the transformations
affecting the molecule.  From top to bottom, the first button turns 
depth-cueing on and off.  The next six menu 
buttons rotate the molecule around the x, y and z axes.  The next six menu
buttons translate the molecule in the x, y and z directions.  The
next two menu buttons scale the molecule (larger or smaller).  The
next to last button is the bungalow (house) icon, which resets the initial
position of the molecule.  The house represents returning to home.  
The stop sign is, of course, the exit.
.PP
The depth-cueing uses either 32 or 16 intensities per color, depending
upon the number of available planes of image memory.
The initial display is designed to emphasize the central structure of the
model.
If the model is translated far enough away to be completely visible, the depth-
cueing will render it virtually invisible.
To see the whole model, scale it down and translate it forward
until the perspective, Z-clipping,
and depth-cueing give an attractive image.
.SH "DIAL AND BUTTON BOX OPERATION"
.PP
If a dial and button box is connected to the IRIS, it can be used to control
the molecule.  Typing \f3k\f1 (which stands for knobs) activates the 
dial and button box as the input device.  
Refer to the dials and buttons by the names in this chart:
.sp
.nf
.ce 100
32 Buttons
SW0	SW1	SW2	SW3
SW4	SW5	SW6	SW7	SW8	SW9
SW10	SW11	SW12	SW13	SW14	SW15
SW16	SW17	SW18	SW19	SW20	SW21
SW22	SW23	SW24	SW25	SW26	SW27
SW28	SW29	SW30	SW31

8 DIALS
DIAL6		DIAL7
DIAL4		DIAL5
DIAL2		DIAL3
DIAL0		DIAL1
.ce 0
.fi
.sp
When the dial and button box is selected as the new input device,
all current transformations (rotations, translations,
and scaling) stop.  The dials and buttons take over the
functions originally found on the pop-up menu:
.nf
.na
.sp
	Button 	Function
.sp
	SW0	Depth-cueing, on and off
.br
	SW1	Return to home position (bungalow icon equivalent)
.br
	SW2	Unused
.br
	SW3	Exit the program
.br
	SW4 	The heme group, the subunit which accepts
		and donates electrons.
.br
	SW5 	Van der Waals surface of the heme group.
.br
	SW6	Electron density contour around the iron atom.
.br
	SW7 	Backbone of P450, connecting alpha-carbons
		of amino acid subunits.
.br 
	SW8	Amino acids that interact with the heme group.
.br
	SW9-SW31 are unused
.bp
	Dials 		Functions
.sp
	DIAL0		enlarge and shrink (scale) molecule
.br
	DIAL1		unused
.br
	DIAL2,4,6	rotate molecule around z, y and x axes (respectively)
.br
	DIAL3,5,7	translate molecule in z, y and x
			directions (respectively)
.sp
.fi
.ad
Type the \f3k\f1 key again to restore the mouse, with its pop-up menu,
as the input device.
.SH "WINDOW MANAGER"
.PP
The heme executable can only run under the window manager.
A special option with the window manager version of heme
continues the motion of the molecule, even when the window is detached.
This motion option is turned on and off by typing \f3m\f1.
.SH "HARDWARE CONFIGURATION"
A minimum configuration of 20 bitplanes of image memory 
is required to run
.I heme.

