'\"macro stdmacro
.TH HP 1
.SH NAME
hp \- handle special functions of \s-1HP\s+1 2640 and 2621-series terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hp
[
.B \-e
] [
.B \-m
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Hp\^
supports special functions of the Hewlett-Packard 2640
series of terminals,
with the primary purpose of producing accurate representations of most
.I nroff\^
output.
.PP
Regardless of the hardware options
on your terminal,
.I hp\^
tries to
do sensible things with underlining and reverse line-feeds.
If the terminal has the
"display enhancements" feature,
subscripts and superscripts can be indicated in distinct ways.
If it has the "mathematical-symbol" feature, Greek and other special
characters can be displayed.
.PP
The flags are as follows:
.PD 0
.TP \w`\f3-m\fP\ \ \ `u
.B \-e
It is assumed that your terminal has the "display
enhancements" feature, and so maximal use is made of the added display modes.
Overstruck characters are presented in the Underline mode.
Superscripts are shown in Half-bright mode,
and subscripts in Half-bright, Underlined mode.
If this flag is omitted,
.I hp\^
assumes that your terminal lacks the "display enhancements" feature.
In this case, all overstruck characters, subscripts, and superscripts
are displayed in Inverse Video
mode, i.e., dark-on-light, rather than the usual
light-on-dark.
.PD 0
.TP \w`\f3-m\f1\ \ \ `u
.B \-m
Requests minimization of output by removal of new-lines.
Any contiguous sequence of 3 or more new-lines is converted into
a sequence of only 2 new-lines;
i.e., any number of successive blank lines produces only
a single blank output line.
This allows you to retain more actual text on the screen.
.PD
.PP
With regard to Greek and other special characters,
.I hp\^
provides the same set as does
.IR 300\^ (1),
except that "not" is approximated by a right arrow,
and only the top half of
the integral sign is shown.
The display is adequate for examining output
from
.IR neqn .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP "\w'\f2line too long\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.I "line too long"
if the representation of a line exceeds 1,024 characters.
.TP
\&
The exit codes are
.B 0
for normal termination,
.B 2
for all errors.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP "" 5
nroff \|\-h \|filea \|.\|.\|. \|| \| hp
.PP
will
.I nroff\^
"filea" according to the special functions of the
Hewlett-Packard 2640 series of terminals.
.SH SEE ALSO
300(1), col(1), eqn(1), greek(1), nroff(1), tbl(1).
.SH BUGS
An "overstriking sequence" is defined as a printing character followed
by a backspace followed by another printing character.
In such sequences, if either printing character is an underscore, the
other printing character is shown underlined or in Inverse Video;
otherwise, only the first printing character is shown (again, underlined or in Inverse Video).
Nothing special is done if a backspace is adjacent to an
.SM ASCII
control character.
Sequences of control characters (e.g., reverse line-feeds, backspaces)
can make text "disappear";
in particular, tables generated by
.IR tbl\^ (1)
that contain vertical lines will often be missing the lines of text that
contain the "foot" of a vertical line,
unless the input to
.I hp\^
is piped through
.IR col\^ (1).
.PP
Although some terminals do provide numerical superscript characters,
no attempt is made to display them.
.\"	@(#)hp.1	5.1 of 11/3/82
