'\"macro stdmacro
.TH JET 1D
.SH NAME
jet \- depthcued wireframe model of a jet fighter 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.B /usr/people/demos/jet  
.PP
.BR /usr/people/mexdemos/jet \0\0(GL2 only)
.in
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Jet 
displays a wireframe model of a jet airplane.  The image includes
660 vectors and can be displayed with constant intensity or depth
cueing.
Operator controls adjust the viewing position and enable or disable depth
cuing.
.PP
The standalone version
uses as many colors as it can find on the system, upwards of 4000 different
intensities can be available depending upon the configuration of the system.
This is admittedly overkill.
The standard window manager version of jet is depth cued using
32 gamma corrected shades of red.  
.PP
Most of the user interface is through the mouse and its buttons.
The mouse buttons control rotation about the x, y and z axes and
viewer distance.
Unless otherwise noted, the x-movement of the mouse is a significant
valuator when holding down the mouse button.
.sp
.sp
.nf
	Mouse buttons		Function
.sp
	left			rotation about x-axis through mouse x-motion
.br
	middle			rotation about y-axis through mouse x-motion
.br
	right 			rotation about z-axis through mouse x-motion
.br
	left & middle 		translate object through mouse x & y motion 
.br
	left & right 		zoom back
.br
	middle & right		zoom forward
.br
    	all			quit the program
.sp
.fi
The operator also uses some keyboard keys to control the jet.
.sp
.sp
.nf
	Keyboard		Function
.br
	ENTER			turn depth cueing on and off
.br
	m			turn constant rotation on and off
.br
	up arrow		dramatically increase range of depth cueing
.br
	right arrow		increase range of depth cueing
.br
	down arrow		dramatically decrease range of depth cueing
.br
	left arrow		decrease range of depth cueing
.br
	ESC			quit the program
.sp
.fi
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS (GL2 only)"
.PP
Upon entry into the program,
.I jet
is set for NTSC or high resolution output, depending on the currently
selected monitor.
The display monitor can be altered during program execution by
pressing the proper control character.
.nf
.sp
.sp
	Key 		Display Monitor
.sp
	CTRL-a		60 HZ monitor
.br
	CTRL-b		30 HZ monitor
.br 
	CTRL-c		NTSC (RS-170A) display
.br
	CTRL-d		PAL (European Video) display
.fi
.sp
.SH "WINDOW MANAGER (GL2 only)"
.PP
There is a window manager version of jet which runs without the
aforementioned display options.
If the jet is in constant motion, it stays in motion, even if
the window is detached.  The arrow keys (up, down, left and right)
are not used in the window manager version of jet, because
the window manager version uses a fixed, abridged color ramp
for depth cueing.
