'\"macro stdmacro
.TH loadst 1
.SH NAME
loadst \- print current time and load statistics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B
loadst
[\-n] [\-a] [\-x] [\-t] [\-u] 
.I
[interval]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B
loadst
is an Emacs helper utility used to drive a mode-line clock for Emacs.
It indicates whether you have new mail, prints the current time, and can
display load average, disk-usage and cumulative cpu-time statistics.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
With no arguments,  loadst prints the word "Mail" if you have new mail, or
nothing if you do not.
Specifying flags adds other information to the
display as follows:
.IP "-a" 17
display system load average
.IP "-x" 17
display disk transfer statistics
.IP "-t" 17
print the current time
.PP
If you specify a decimal
.I
interval
argument,
.B
loadst
will go to sleep and produce its output every
.I
interval
seconds.  If no interval is specified, loadst prints once and exits.
.IP "-n" 17
prevents a newline from being added to the end of the status
line.  Otherwise,  a newline is appended.
.IP "-u" 17
causes it to use your real uid rather than the value of the
USER shell variable (which may not be defined on non-BSD systems)
to figure out the name of your mail file.
.SH NOTE
In order to produce the load, disk, and cpu-usage statistics,
.B
loadst
must be able to read /dev/kmem.  If /dev/kmem is protected against
unprivileged users, you must run loadst setuid or setgid so it can read
/dev/kmem.
.SH FILES
.IP "/dev/kmem" 17
for load, cpu-usage, disk-usage statistics
.IP "time.ml" 17
Emacs MLisp library that uses loadst to drive a mode-line clock
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP "emacs(1)" 17
the Emacs editor
.SH BUGS
The options must be given one per word, as in "-a -t" rather than
"-at".  This is not considered to be a problem, since
.B
loadst
is intended to be invoked by time.ml, and not interactively.
