'\"macro stdmacro
.TH LOGIN 1
.SH NAME
login \- sign on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B login
[ name [ env-var .\|.\|. ]\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I login\^
command
is used at the beginning of each terminal session
and allows you to identify yourself to the system.
It may be invoked as a command or
by the system when a connection
is first established.
Also, it is invoked by the system when a previous user has
terminated the initial shell by typing a
.I cntrl-d
to indicate an "end-of-file".
.PP
If
.I login\^
is invoked as a command, it must replace the initial
command interpreter.
This is accomplished by typing:
.RS
exec login
.RE
from the initial shell.
.PP
.I Login\^
asks for your user name (if not supplied as an argument), and, if
appropriate, your password.
Echoing is turned off (where possible) during the typing of your password,
so it will not appear on the written record of the
session.
.PP
At some installations, an option may be invoked that will require
you to enter a second "dialup" password.
This will occur only
for dial-up connections, and will be prompted by the message
"dialup password:".
Both passwords are required for a successful 
.IR login .
.PP
If you do not complete the 
.I login\^
successfully within a
certain period of time (e.g.,
one minute), you are likely to be silently disconnected.
.PP
After a successful 
.IR login ,
accounting files are updated,
the procedure
.B /etc/profile
is performed,
the message-of-the-day, if any, is printed,
the user-\s-1ID\s+1, the group-\s-1ID\s+1, 
the working directory, and the command interpreter
(usually 
.IR sh\^ (1))
is initialized,
and the file
.B \&.profile
in the working directory is executed,
if it exists.
These specifications are found in the 
.B /etc/passwd
file entry for the user.
The name of the command interpreter is
.B \-
followed by the last component of the interpreter's pathname
(i.e.,
.BR \-sh ).
If this field in the password file is empty,
then the default command interpreter,
.B /bin/sh
is used.
.PP
The basic
.I environment\^
(see
.IR environ\^ (5))
is initialized to:
.PP
.RS
\s-1HOME\s+1=\f2your-login-directory\fP
.br
\s-1PATH\s+1=:/bin:/usr/bin
.br
\s-1SHELL\s+1=\f2last-field-of-passwd-entry\fP
.br
\s-1MAIL\s+1=/usr/mail/\f2your-login-name\fP
.br
\s-1TZ\s+1=\f2timezone-specification\fP
.br
\s-1LOGNAME\s+1=\f2your-login-name\fP
.RE
.PP
The environment may be expanded or modified by supplying additional
arguments to
.IR login ,
either at execution time or when
.I login\^
requests your 
.I login\^
name.  The arguments may take either the form
.I xxx\^
or
.IR xxx=yyy .
Arguments without an equal sign are placed
in the environment as
.RS
\f3L\|\f2n\^\f1=xxx
.RE
where
.I n\^
is a number starting at 0 and is incremented each time
a new variable name is required.
Variables containing an
.B =
are placed into the environment without modification.  If they
already appear in the environment, then they replace the older
value.  There are two exceptions.  The variables
.B \s-1PATH\s+1
and
.B \s-1SHELL\s+1
cannot be changed.  This prevents people, logging into restricted
shell environments, from spawning secondary shells which aren't
restricted.  Both
.I login\^
and
.I getty\^
understand simple single character quoting conventions.  Typing a
backslash
in front of a character quotes it and allows the inclusion of such
things as spaces and tabs.
.SH EXAMPLE
At the beginning of each terminal session, the following sort of
message is displayed on the screen:
.IP
.br
login:
.PP
to which a user name is the appropriate response.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/mail/your-name\ \ 'u
/etc/utmp	accounting
.br
/etc/wtmp	accounting
.br
.RI /usr/mail/ your-name "	mailbox for user\^"
.I your-name\^
.br
/etc/motd	message-of-the-day
.br
/etc/passwd	password file
.br
/etc/profile	systemwide personal profile 
.RI ( sh\^ (1))
.br
/etc/cshrc	systemwide personal csh startup 
.RI ( csh\^ (1))
.br 
/etc/TZ	systemwide time-zone specification
.br
\&.profile	personal profile 
.RI ( sh\^ (1))
.br
\&.login	personal csh startup used at login time
.RI ( csh\^ (1))
.br
\&.cshrc	personal csh startup
.RI ( csh\^ (1))
.br
\&.logout	personal csh logout used at logout time
.RI ( csh\^ (1))
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1),
newgrp(1),
sh(1),
su(1),
passwd(4),
profile(4),
environ(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP .3i
.I "Login incorrect"
if the user name or the password cannot be matched.
.TP
\f2No shell\f1, \f2cannot open password file\f1, or \f2no directory\f1
consult a
.SM UNIX 
system programming counselor.
.tr ~"
.TP
.I "No utmp entry. You must exec ~login~ from the lowest level ~sh~."
if you attempted to execute \f2login\^\fP as a command without using
the shell's \f2exec\^\fP internal command or from other than the initial shell.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)login.1	5.1 of 11/15/83
