'\"macro stdmacro
.TH LPSTAT 1
.SH NAME
lpstat \- print \s-1LP\s+1 status information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpstat
[\|options\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lpstat\^
prints information
about the current status
of the
.SM LP
line printer system.
.PP
If no
.I options\^
are given,
then
.I lpstat\^
prints the status
of all requests
made to
.IR lp\^ (1)
by the user.
Any arguments that are not
.I options\^
are assumed to be request
.I ids\^
(as returned by
.IR lp\^ ).
.I Lpstat\^
prints the status
of such requests.
.I Options\^
may appear in any order
and may be repeated and intermixed
with other arguments.
Some of the keyletters below
may be followed
by an optional
.I list\^
that can be in one of two forms:
a list of items separated from one another by a comma,
or a list of items enclosed in double quotes
and separated from one another by a comma and/or
one or more spaces.
For example:
.IP
\-u"user1, user2, user3"
.PP
The omission of a
.I list\^
following such keyletters
causes all information
relevant to the keyletter
to be printed, for example:
.IP
lpstat \-o
.PP
prints the status of all output requests.
.TP "\w'\f3\-a\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]\ \ 'u"
\f3\-a\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]
Print acceptance status
(with respect to
.IR lp\^ )
of destinations for requests.
.I List\^
is a list of intermixed
printer names
and
class names.
.TP
\f3\-c\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]
Print class names and their members.
.I List\^
is a list of class names.
.TP
.B \-d
Print the system default destination for
.IR lp .
.TP
\f3\-o\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]
Print the status of output requests.
.I List\^
is a list of intermixed
printer names,
class names,
and request
.IR ids .
.TP
\f3\-p\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]
Print the status of printers.
.I List\^
is a list of printer names.
.TP
.B \-r
Print the status of
the 
.SM LP 
request scheduler.
.TP
.B \-s
Print
a status summary,
including
the status of the line printer scheduler,
the system default destination,
a list of class names
and their members,
and a list of printers
and their associated devices.
.TP
.B \-t
Print all status information.
.TP
\f3\-u\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]
Print status of output requests for users.
.I List\^
is a list of login names.
.TP
\f3\-v\f1[\f2\|list\|\f1]
Print the names of printers
and the pathnames of the devices
associated with them.
.I List\^
is a list of printer names.
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/lp/\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
enable(1),
lp(1).
.\"	@(#)lpstat.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
