'\"macro stdmacro
.TH LS 1
.SH NAME
ls \- list contents of directory (enhanced Berkeley version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls
[
.B \-1ACFHLRTabcdfgilmnoqrstux
] name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
.I ls\^
lists the contents of the directory;
for each file argument,
.I ls\^
repeats the file name(s) and any other information
requested with the
.I ls\^
options.
The output is sorted alphabetically by default.
When no argument is given, the current directory is listed.
When several arguments are given,
the arguments are first sorted appropriately,
but file arguments appear
before directories and their contents.
.PP
There are three major listing formats.
The format chosen depends on whether the output is going
to a terminal, and may also be controlled by option flags.
The default format for a terminal is to list the contents of directories
in multi-column format, with the entries sorted down the columns.
(Files which are not the contents of a directory being interpreted
are always sorted across the page rather than down the page in columns.
This is because the individual file names may be arbitrarily long.)
Files are listed first, and each directory being listed is labeled
with its pathname, when two or more directory listings are
requested.
If the standard output is not a terminal, the default format is to
list one entry per line.
Finally, there is a stream output format in which files are listed
across the page, separated by commas.
The
.B \-m
flag enables this format.
.PP
There are numerous options:
.TP "\w'\f3\-F\f1\|\ \ 'u"
.B  \-l
List in long format, giving mode, number of links, owner, group,
size in bytes, and time of last modification
for each file.
(See below.)
If the file is a special file, the size field will contain
the major and minor device numbers.
.TP
.B  \-t
Sort by time modified (latest first) instead of
by name.
.TP
.B  \-a
List all entries, including
entries preceded by a dot (.).
.TP
.B  \-A
Same as 
.B  \-a
, but not including the directory files (.)
or (..).
.TP
.B  \-s
Give size in kbytes (one kbytes equals 1024 bytes),
not including indirect blocks, for each entry.
.TP
.B  \-d
If argument is a directory, list only its name, not
its contents (usually used with
.B \-l
to get status
on directory).
.TP
.B  \-L
If the file is a symbolic link, list the file that the
link references.
.TP
.B  \-H
If the file is a symbolic link, list the link itself.
.TP
.B  \-r
Reverse the order of sort to get reverse alphabetic
or oldest first as appropriate.
.TP
.B  \-u
Use time of last access (use) instead of last
modification for sorting
.RB ( \-t )
or printing
.RB ( \-l ).
.TP
.B  \-c
Use time of last status change for sorting
.RB ( \-t )
or printing
.RB ( \-l )
(see 
.IR stat\^ (2)).
.TP
.B  \-i
Print i-number in first column
of the report for each file listed.
.TP
.B  \-f
Force each argument to be interpreted as a directory
and list the name found in each slot.
This option turns off
.BR \-l ,\  \-t ,\  \-s ,
and
.BR \-r ,
and
turns on
.BR \-a ;
the entries are printed in the order that they 
appear in the directory.
.TP
.B  \-g
Do not give owner 
.SM ID
in long listing.
.TP
.B  \-o
Do not give group 
.SM ID
in long listing
.TP
.B  \-m
Force stream output format.
.TP
.B  \-1
Force one entry per line output format, e.g., to a terminal.
.TP
.B  \-C
Force multi-column output, e.g., to a file or a pipe.
.TP
.B  \-q
Force printing of non-graphic characters in file names as
the character `?'; this normally happens only if the output device is
a terminal.
.TP
.B  \-b
Force printing of non-graphic characters to be in the `\eddd'
notation, in octal.
.TP
.B  \-x
Force columnar printing to be sorted across rather than
down the page.
If the last character of the name the program is invoked
with is an `x' (for example, by linking 
.I /bin/ls 
to 
.IR /bin/lx ), 
this option 
is the default.
.TP
.B  \-F
Cause directories to be marked with a trailing ``/'', executable
files to be marked with a trailing ``\(**'', symbolic links to be
marked with a trailing ``@'', and network symbolic links to be
marked with a trailing ``!'';
If the last character of the name the program is invoked
with is a `f' (for example, by linking 
.I /bin/ls
to
.IR /bin/lf ), 
this option is the default.
.TP
.B  \-p
Cause directories to be marked with a trailing `/'.
.TP
.B  \-R
Recursively list subdirectories encountered.
.TP
.B  \-T
Causes long listings to include seconds in the time.
.PP
The mode printed under the
.B \-l
(long) option contains eleven characters
which are interpreted
as follows:
.PP
.ti 4em
The first character is:
.RS .3i
.TP "\w'\f3m\f1\|\ \ 'u"
.B d
if the entry is a directory;
.PD 0
.TP
.B b
if the entry is a block-type special file;
.TP
.B c
if the entry is a character-type special file;
.TP
.B p
if the entry is a named pipe;
.TP
.B l
if the entry is a symbolic link;
.TP
.B \-
if the entry is a plain file.
.PD
.PP
The next nine characters are interpreted
as three sets of three bits each.
The first set refers to owner permissions;
the next to permissions to others in the same user-group;
and the last to all others.
Within each set the three characters indicate
permission respectively to read, to write, or to
execute the file as a program.
For a directory, ``execute'' permission is interpreted
to mean permission to search the directory
for a specified file.
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.TP "\w'\f3m\f1\|\ \ 'u"
.B  r
if the file is readable;
.PD 0
.TP
.B w
if the file is writable;
.TP
.B x
if the file is executable;
.TP
.B \-
if the indicated permission is not granted.
.PD
.PP
The group-execute permission character is given
as
.B s
if the file has set-group-\s-1ID\s+1 mode;
likewise the user-execute permission character is given
as
.B s
if the file has set-user-\s-1ID\s+1 mode.
.PP
The last character of the mode (normally `x' or `\-') is 
.B t
if the 1000 bit of the mode is on.
See
.IR chmod\^ (1)
for further information on file permissions and modes.
.RE
.PP
When the sizes of the files in a directory
are listed, a total count of kbytes,
not including indirect blocks is printed.
.PP
The name of the file that a symbolic link points to is
also listed (unless the 
.B \-L 
flag is also given).
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP \w'ls\ \ \ 'u
ls
lists the contents of the current directory in multi-column format.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/etc/passwd\ \ \ \ \ 'u
/etc/passwd	to get user \s-1ID\s+1s for 
ls \-l.
.br
/etc/group	to get group \s-1ID\s+1s for
ls \-l.
.SH BUGS
Eight character user names merge with the group name, so you
cannot use utilities that count fields separated by whitespace.
