'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MAN 1
.SH NAME
man, manprog \- print entries in this manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
[ options ] [ section ] titles
.PP
.B /usr/lib/manprog
file
.tr ~"
.if t .ds i ''
.if n .ds i ""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Man\^
locates and prints the entry of this manual named
.I title\^
in the specified
.IR section .
(For historical reasons, the word ``page''
is often used as a synonym for ``entry'' in this context.)\
Requests for entries are case-insensitive and
only the first nine characters 
are significant.
They can contain shell metacharacters.
The
.I section\^
number may not have
a subsection letter suffix.
A new
.I section\^
can be specified before each
.IR title .
If no
.I section\^
is specified, the whole manual is searched for
.IR title .
If multiple entries match the request,
.I man
pauses between them. 
Specifying the section will greatly speed up finding the entry.
.PP
.I Man
first searches for the entry in the directories of pre-formatted man
pages
.RB ( /usr/man/?_man/cat?
and
.BR /usr/man/local/cat? )
for quick printing of frequently referenced pages.
If there is not a pre-formatted page then one will be created
(unless certain incompatible options are specified,
.IR e.g. ,
.BR -t ).
.PP
.I Options\^
and their meanings are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 11
.B \-t
Typeset the entry
in the default format (8.5\*i\(mu11\*i).
.TP
.B \-s
Typeset the entry in the small format (6\*i\(mu9\*i).
.TP
.B \-T4014
Display the typeset output on a Tektronix 4014 terminal using
.IR tc (1).
.TP
.B \-Ttek
Same as
.BR \-T4014 .
.TP
.B \-Tst
Print the typeset output on the
.SM MHCC STARE
facility
(this option is not usable on most systems).
.TP
.B \-Tvp
Print the typeset output on a
Versatec printer;
this option is not available at all
.SM UNIX
System sites.
.TP
.BI \-T term\^
Format the entry using
.I nroff
and print it on the standard output
(usually, the terminal);
.I term\^
is the terminal type (see
.IR term (5)
and the explanation below);
for a list of recognized values of
.IR term ,
type
.BR "help term2" .
The default value of
.I term\^
is
.BR 450 .
.TP
.B \-w
Print on the standard output only the
.I "path names\^"
of the entries,
relative to
.BR /usr/man ,
or to the current directory for
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.B \-d
Search the current directory rather than
.BR /usr/man ;
requires the full file name (e.g.,
.BR cu.1c ,
rather than just
.BR cu ).
.TP
.B \-12
Indicates that the manual entry is to be produced in
12-pitch.
May be used when
.SM
.B $TERM
(see below)
is set to one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
and
.BR 1620 .
(The pitch switch on the
.SM DASI
300 and 300s terminals must be manually set to
.B 12
if this option is used.)
.TP
.B \-c
Causes
.I man\^
to invoke
.IR col (1);
note that
.IR col (1)
is invoked automatically by
.I man\^
unless
.I term\^
is one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
.BR 37 ,
.BR 4000a ,
.BR 382 ,
.BR 4014 ,
.BR tek ,
.BR 1620 ,
and
.BR X .
.TP
.B \-y
Causes
.I man\^
to use the non-compacted version of the macros.
.PD
.PP
The above
.I options\^
other than
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-c ,
and
.B \-y
are mutually exclusive, except that the
.B \-s
option may be used in conjunction with the first four
.B \-T
options above.
Any other
.I options\^
are passed to
.IR troff ,
.IR nroff ,
or the
.IR man (5)
macro package.
.PP
When using
.IR nroff ,
.I man\^
examines the environment variable
.SM
.B $TERM
(see
.IR environ (5))
and attempts to select options to
.IR nroff ,
as well as filters,
that adapt the output to the terminal being used.
The
.BI \-T term\^
option overrides the value of
.SM
.BR $TERM\*S ;
in particular, one should use
.B \-Tlp
when sending the output of
.I man\^
to a line printer.
.PP
If the first line of the input for an entry consists
solely of the string:
.IP
.BI \&'\^\e~\| " x"
.PP
where
.I x\^
is any combination of the three characters
.BR c ,
.BR e ,
and
.BR t ,
and
where there is exactly one blank between the double quote
.RB ( ~ )
and
.IR x ,
then
.I man\^
will preprocess its input through the appropriate combination of
.IR cw (1),
.IR eqn (1)
(\f3neqn\fP for \f3nroff\fP)
and
.IR tbl (1),
respectively;
if
.I eqn
or
.I neqn
are invoked, they will automatically read the file
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
(see
.IR eqnchar (5)).
.PP
The
.I man\^
command executes
.I manprog\^
that takes a file name as its argument.
.I Manprog\^
calculates and returns a string of
three register definitions used by the formatters
identifying the date the file was last modified.
The returned string has the form:
.PP
.RS
.BI \-rd day
.BI \-rm month
.BI \-ry year
.RE
.PP
and is passed to
.I nroff\^
which sets this string as variables for the
.I man\^
macro package.
Months are given from 0 to 11, therefore month is always
1 less than the actual month.
The
.I man\^
macros calculate the correct month.
If the
.I man\^
macro package is invoked as an option to
.IR nroff / troff
(i.e.,
.IR "nroff \-man file" ),
then the current
day/month/year is used as the printed date.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
man \|man
.PP
reproduces on the terminal this entry,
as well as any other entries named
.I man\^
that may exist in other sections of the manual, e.g.,
.IR man (5).
.IP
man 2 get\\*
.PP
 will display the entries for all system calls
that begin with ``get''.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/man/u_man/man[1-8]/\(**\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/man/[au]_man/man[1-8]/\(**
the \f3\s-1UNIX\s+1 Programmer's Manual\fP
.TP
/usr/man/local/man[1-8]/\(**
local additions
.TP
/usr/man/[au]_man/cat[1-8]/\(**
pre-formatted man pages for fast printing
.TP
/usr/man/local/cat[1-8]/\(**
pre-formatted local man pages for fast printing
.TP
/usr/lib/manprog
calculates modification dates of entries
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
cw(1),
eqn(1),
nroff(1),
tbl(1),
tc(1),
troff(1),
environ(5),
man(5),
term(5).
.SH BUGS
All entries are supposed to be reproducible either on
a typesetter or on a terminal.
However, on a terminal some information is necessarily lost.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)man.1	5.2 of 5/18/82
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/man.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:46:55 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	man.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:46:55  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.3  86/10/03  17:28:31  rmr
.\" *** empty log message ***
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  85/01/08  11:04:03  bob
.\" Changed \f[RIB] to \f[123].
.\" 
