'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MEX 1G
.SH NAME
mex \- manage windows on the IRIS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mex 
[ 
.B \-d
]
[ 
.B \-t
titlefont ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I mex
(Multiple EXposure) is the IRIS window manager.
When it is started, the existing textport is put into a window
called the
.I console
which is the same size and location as the original textport.
The console can be used to create, compile, and execute graphics
programs, and to interact with other system utilities.
You can change the size and location of the console, but you cannot
delete it.
.PP
Normally, when the first program that does double buffering is started, all
single buffer windows will be redrawn. 
Similarly, when the last double buffered window is destroyed, all remaining
windows are redrawn.
The 
.B \-d
option causes the window manager to always remain in double buffer mode. 
This will eliminate the redrawing behavior described above.  It is possible
there will be some sacrifice on systems with fewer than 24 bitplanes.
.PP
With the 
.B \-t
option the font the window manager uses for titles may be specified. 
A set of font files are provided in 
.I /usr/lib/gl2/fonts.
.PP
After
.I mex
has been started, you can create additional shell windows and run graphics
programs that create graphports.
The directory 
.I /usr/people/gifts/mextools 
contains a set of
demonstration programs and tools to use with the window manager.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
mex \-d \-t /usr/lib/gl2/fonts/small7.fnt
.PP
Starts the window manager in double buffer mode.  A small font 7 pixels
high will be used to title windows.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/lib/gl2/fonts/*
.br
/usr/people/gifts/mextools/*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
loadfont(1G).


