'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MKSTR 1
.SH NAME
mkstr \- create an error message file by massaging C source
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkstr
[
.B \-
]
[ 
\-anyname ( ] mesgfile prefix file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkstr\^
is used to create files of error messages.
Its use can make programs with large numbers of error diagnostics much
smaller, and reduce system overhead in running the program as the
error messages do not have to be constantly swapped in and out.
.PP
.I Mkstr\^
will process each of the specified
.IR files ,
placing a massaged version of the input file in a file whose name
consists of the specified
.I prefix\^ 
and the original name.
.PP
To process the error messages in the source to the message file
.I mkstr\^
keys on the string
.B `error("'
in the input stream.
Each time it occurs, the C string starting at the 
.B \^"\^
is placed
in the message file followed by a new-line character and a null character; 
the null character terminates the message so it can be easily used
when retrieved, the new-line character makes it possible to sensibly
.I cat\^
the error message file to see its contents.
The massaged copy of the input file then contains a
.I lseek\^
pointer into the file which can be used to retrieve the message, i.e.:
.IP
.ta \w'\f3char\f1\ \ 'u +\w'\f3if\f1 (efi1\ 'u +\w'\f3if\f1 (efi1\ 'u
\f3char\f1	efilname[] =  "/usr/lib/pi_strings";
.br
\f3int\f1	efil = \-1;
.IP
error(a1, a2, a3, a4)
.br
{
.br
	\f3char\f1 buf[256];
.IP
	\f3if\f1 (efil < 0) {
.br
		efil = open(efilname, 0);
.br
		\f3if\f1 (efil < 0) {
.br
oops:
.br
			perror(efilname);
.br
			exit(1);
.br
		}
.br
	}
.br
	\f3if\f1 (lseek(efil, (long) a1, 0) |\0| read(efil, buf, 256) <= 0)
.br
		\f3goto\f1 oops;
.br
	printf(buf, a2, a3, a4);
.br
}
.DT
.PP
The optional
.B \-
causes the error messages to be placed at the end of the specified
message file for recompiling part of a large
.IR mkstr \^ed
program.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
If the current directory has files "a.c" and "b.c", then
.IP
mkstr exs x *.c
.PP
would create a new file "exs" which holds all the error messages
extracted from the source files "a.c" and "b.c",
as well as two new source files "xa.c" and "xb.c" which
no longer contains the extracted error messages.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
lseek(2). 
.SH BUGS
All the arguments except the name of the file to be processed are
unnecessary.
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Joy and Charles Haley.
.\"	@(#)mkstr.1	5.1 of 11/16/83
