'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MM 1
.SH NAME
mm, osdd, checkmm \- print/check documents formatted with the \s-1MM\s+1 macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B osdd
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B checkmm
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mm\^
can be used to type out documents using
.I nroff\^
and the
.SM MM
text-formatting macro package.
It has options to specify
preprocessing by
.IR tbl\^ (1)
and/or
.I neqn\^
(see
.IR eqn\^ (1))
and postprocessing by various terminal-oriented output filters.
The proper pipelines and the
required arguments and flags for
.I nroff\^
and
.SM MM
are generated, depending on the options selected.
.PP
.I Options\^
for
.I mm\^
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags (e.g.,
.BR \-rC3 )
are passed
to
.I nroff\^
or to
.SM MM\*S,
as appropriate.
Such options can occur in any order,
but they must appear before the
.I files\^
arguments.
If no arguments are given,
.I mm\^
prints a list of its options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3\-T\f2term\f1\ \ 'u"
.BI \-T term
Specifies the type of output terminal;
for a list of recognized values for
.IR term ,
type
.BR "help term2" .
If this option is
.I not\^
used,
.I mm\^
will use the value of the shell variable
.SM
.B $TERM
from the environment (see
.IR profile\^ (4)
and
.IR environ\^ (5))
as the value of
.IR term ,
if
.SM
.B $TERM
is set;
otherwise,
.I mm\^
will use
.B 450
as the value of
.IR term .
If several terminal types are specified,
the last one takes precedence.
.TP
.B \-12
Indicates that the document is to be produced in 12-pitch.
May be used when
.SM
.B $TERM
is set to one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
and
.BR 1620 .
(The pitch switch on the
.SM DASI
300 and 300s terminals must be manually
set to
.B 12
if this option is used.)
.TP
.B \-c
Causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR col\^ (1);
note that
.IR col\^ (1)
is invoked automatically by
.I mm\^
unless
.I term\^
is one of
.BR 300 ,
.BR 300s ,
.BR 450 ,
.BR 37 ,
.BR 4000a ,
.BR 382 ,
.BR 4014 ,
.BR tek ,
.BR 1620 ,
and
.BR X .
.TP
.B \-e
Causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR neqn ;
also causes
.I neqn\^
to read the
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
file (see
.IR eqnchar\^ (5)).
.TP
.B \-t
Causes
.I mm\^
to invoke
.IR tbl\^ (1).
.TP
.B \-E
Invokes the
.B \-e
option of
.IR nroff .
.TP
.B \-y
Causes
.I mm\^
to use the non-compacted version of the macros (see
.IR mm\^ (5)).
.PD
.PP
.I Checkmm\^
is a program for checking the contents of the
named
.I files\^
for errors in the use of the Memorandum Macros,
missing or unbalanced
.I neqn\^
delimiters, and
.BR \&.EQ / .EN
pairs.
Note: The user need not use the
.I checkeq\^
program (see
.IR eqn\^ (1)).
Appropriate messages are produced.
The program skips all directories, and if no file
name is given, standard input is read.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Assuming that the shell variable
.SM \f3$TERM\fP
is set in the environment to
.BR 450 ,
the two command lines below are equivalent:
.IP
mm \|\-t \|\-rC3 \|\-12 \|ghh\(**
.IP
tbl \|ghh\(** \||\| \|nroff \|\-cm \|\-T450\-12 \|\-h \|\-rC3
.PP
.I Mm\^
reads the standard input
when
.B \-
is specified
instead of any file names.
(Mentioning other files together with
.B \-
leads to disaster.)
This option allows
.I mm\^
to be used as a filter, e.g.:
.IP
cat \|dws \||\| \|mm \|\-
.SH HINTS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'2.\ \ 'u"
1.
.I Mm\^
invokes
.I nroff\^
with the
.B \-h
flag.
With this flag,
.I nroff\^
assumes that the terminal has tabs set
every 8 character positions.
.TP
2.
Use the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I nroff\^
to specify ranges of pages to be output.
Note, however, that
.IR mm ,
if invoked with
one or more of the
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-t ,
and
.B \-
options,
.I together\^
with the
.BI \-o list\^
option of
.I nroff\^
may cause a harmless "broken pipe" diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.TP
3.
If you use the
.B \-s
option of
.I nroff\^
(to stop between pages of output),
use line-feed (rather than return or new-line)
to restart the output.
The
.B \-s
option of
.I nroff\^
does not work with the
.B \-c
option of
.IR mm ,
or if
.I mm\^
automatically invokes
.IR col\^ (1)
(see
.B \-c
option above).
.TP
4.
If you lie to
.I mm\^
about the kind of terminal its output will be printed on,
you'll get (often subtle) garbage;
however, if you are redirecting output into a file, use the
.B \-T37
option, and then use the appropriate terminal filter when you actually 
print that file.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
col(1), cw(1), env(1), eqn(1), greek(1), mmt(1), nroff(1), tbl(1),
profile(4), mm(5), term(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.tr ~~
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f2checkmm\f1\ \ 'u"
.I mm\^
"mm: \|no input file"\| if
none of the arguments is a readable file and
.I mm\^
is not used as a filter.
.TP
.I checkmm\^
"Cannot open \f2filename\f1"\|
if file(s) is unreadable.
The remaining output of the program is diagnostic of the source
file.
.PD
.\"	@(#)mm.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
