'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MORE 1
.SH NAME
more, page \- file perusal filter for crt viewing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B more
[
.BR \-cdf\^lsu n
]
[
.BR \+ linenumber
.BR |\0\+/ pattern
]
[\ name ...\ ]
.PP
.B page
[
.BR \-cdf\^lsu n
]
[
.BR \+ linenumber
.BR |\0\+/ pattern
]
[\ name ...\ ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I more\^
is a filter which allows examination of a continuous text
one screenful at a time on a 
.SM CRT
terminal.
It normally pauses after each screenful, printing ``--More--''
at the bottom of the screen.
.PP
If the user then types a carriage return, one more line is displayed.
If the user hits a space,
another screenful is displayed.
If a space is preceded by an integer, that number of lines is printed.
If the user hits
.B d
or control-D,
11 more lines are displayed (a ``scroll'').
.PP
.I more\^
looks in the file
.I /etc/termcap
to determine terminal characteristics
and to determine the default window size.
On a terminal capable of displaying 24 lines,
the default window size is 22 lines.
.PP
If
.I more\^
is reading from a file, rather than a pipe, then a percentage is displayed
along with the ``--More--'' prompt.
This gives the fraction of the file (in characters, not lines) that has been
read so far.
.PP
The
following options are available:
.TP "\w'\f3\-n\f1\|\ \ 'u"
.I \-n
Integer size (in lines) of the window which
.I more\^
will use instead of the default.
.TP
.B \-c
.I more
will draw each page by beginning at the top of the screen
and erasing each line just before it draws it.  Redrawing the screen
in this manner,
avoids scrolling the screen, making it easier to read while
.I more
is writing.  This option will be ignored if the terminal does
not have the ability to clear to the end of the line.
.TP
.B \-d
At the end of each screenful, causes 
.I more\^
to prompt the user with the message ``Hit
space to continue, Rubout to abort''.
.TP
.B \-f
Causes
.I more\^
to count logical, rather than screen lines.
That is, long lines are not folded.  This option is
recommended if 
.I nroff\|
output is being piped through
.IR ul ,
since the latter may generate escape sequences.
These escape sequences contain characters which would 
ordinarily occupy screen positions, but which do not print when they
are sent to the terminal as part of an escape sequence.  Thus, 
.I more\^
may think that lines are longer than they actually are,
and fold lines erroneously.
.TP
.B \-l
Causes
.I more\^
not to treat control-L (form feed) specially.
If this option is not given,
.I more\^
will pause after any line that contains a control-L, as if the end of a
screenful had been reached.
Also, if a file begins with a form feed, the screen will be cleared
before the file is printed.
.TP
.B \-s
Squeeze multiple blank lines from the output, producing only one blank
line.  This option is especially helpful when viewing 
.I nroff
output.  This option maximizes the useful information presented on 
the screen.
.TP
.B \-u
Normally,
.I more
will handle underlining such as produced by
.I nroff
in a manner appropriate to the particular terminal.  If the terminal
can perform underlining or has a standout mode, 
.I more
will output appropriate escape sequences to enable underlining
or stand-out mode for underlined information in the source file.  
The 
.B \-u 
option suppresses this processing.
.TP
.B +\f2linenumber\f1
Causes
.I more\^
to start up at \f2linenumber\fP
.TP
.B +/\f2pattern\fP
Causes
.I more\^
to start up two lines before the line containing the
regular expression \f2pattern\fP.
.PP
If the program is invoked as
.I page
then the screen is cleared before each screenful is printed
(but only if a full screenful is being printed), and 
.IR k \- 1
rather than 
.IR k \- 2
lines are printed in each screenful, where
.I k
is the number of lines in the terminal display.
.PP
Once inside
.IR more ,
other sequences may be typed when
.I more\^
pauses.  The sequences and their effects are as follows
(\f2i\|\fP is an optional integer
argument, defaulting to 1) :
.TP "\w'\f3\-n\f1\|\ \ 'u"
\f2i\|\fPz
Same as typing a space except that \f2i\|\fP, if present, becomes the new
window size.
.TP
\f2i\|\fPs
Skip \f2i\|\fP lines and print a screenful of lines
.TP
\f2i\|\fPf
Skip \f2i\|\fP screenfuls and print a screenful of lines
.TP
\f2i\|\fPn
Skip to the \f2i\|\fP-th next file given in the command line
(skips to last file if n doesn't make sense)
.TP
\f2i\|\fPp
Skip to the \f2i\|\fP-th previous file given in the command line.
If this command is given in the middle of printing out a
file, then
.I more\^
goes back to the beginning of the file. If \f2i\|\fP doesn't make sense,
.I more\^
skips back to the first file.
If
.I more\^
is not reading from a file, the bell is rung and nothing else happens.
.TP 
q or Q
Exit from more.
.TP
\f2i\|/expr\fP
Search for the \f2i\|\fP-th occurrence of the regular expression \f2expr\fP.
If there are less than \f2i\|\fP occurrences of \f2expr\fP
and the input is a file (rather than a pipe),
then the position in the file remains unchanged.
Otherwise, a screenful is displayed, starting two lines before the place
where the expression was found.
The user's erase and kill characters may be used to edit the regular
expression.
Erasing back past the first column cancels the search command.
.TP 
\&\f3'\f1
(single quote) Go to the point from which the last search started.
If no search has been performed in the current file, this command
goes back to the beginning of the file.
.TP 
\f3!\f2command\f1
Invoke a shell 
with \f2command\fP. 
.PP
The commands take effect immediately, i.e., it is not necessary to
type a carriage return.
Up to the time when the command character itself is given,
the user may hit the line kill character to cancel the numerical
argument being formed.
In addition, the user may hit the erase character to redisplay the
``--More--(xx%)'' message.
.PP
At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can
hit the quit key (normally control\-\\).
.I More\^
will stop sending output, and will display the usual ``--More--''
prompt.
The user may then enter one of the above commands in the normal manner.
Unfortunately, some output is lost when this is done, due to the
fact that any characters waiting in the terminal's output queue
are flushed when the quit signal occurs.
.PP
The terminal is set to
.I noecho\^
mode by this program so that the output can be continuous.
Thus, what you type does not show on your terminal, except for the `/' and `!'
commands.
.PP
If the standard output is not a terminal, then
.I more\^
acts just like
.IR cat (1),
except that a header is printed before each file (if there is
more than one).
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
nroff \-ms +2 doc.n | more
.PP
would show the 
.I nroff\|
output on the terminal screen.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/more.help\ \ \ \ 'u
/etc/termcap		terminal data base
.br
/usr/lib/more.help	help file
.DT
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Shienbrood
.\"	@(#)more.1	5.1 of 11/16/83
