'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MT 1
.SH NAME
mt \- magnetic tape manipulating program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mt
[
.B \-t
.BR /dev/ tapedevice
]
command
[ count ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mt\^
is used to give commands to the magnetic tape drives.
By default,
.I mt
performs the requested operation with the Quarter Inch Cartridge
tape drive. Normally the operations are performed once.
Operations may be performed multiple times by specifying
.IR count .
.PP
To use the Half Inch tape drive the
.B \-t
.BR /dev/ tapedevice
is used to specify which tape device to use.
.PP
The default tape device uses the no-rewind device.
No filemark is written to the no-rewind device on close.
.PP
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.
.RS
.TP
.B eof
Write 
.I count
end-of-file marks at the current position on the tape.
.TP
.B fsf
Forward space
.I count
files.
.TP
.B fsr
Forward space 
.I count
records. This operation will have little real effect with the
Quarter Inch Cartridge tape drive.
.TP
.B bsf
Backspace
.I count
files. This operation will have no effect with the
Quarter Inch Cartridge tape drive.
.TP
.B bsr
Backspace 
.I count
records. This operation will have no effect with the
Quarter Inch Cartridge tape drive.
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind the tape
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B status
Print status information about the tape unit.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B blksize
Print the default block size to be used by tar.
.TP
.B retension
Retension the Quarter Inch Cartridge installed in the drive.
This does not effect the Half Inch tape drive.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B erase
Erase the Quarter Inch Cartridge installed in the drive.
This does not effect the Half Inch tape drive.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.TP
.B help
Print command usage information about the command.
.RI ( Count
is ignored.)
.RE
.PP
.I mt\^
returns a 0 exit status when the operations were successful,
a 1 if a command was unrecognized,
and a 2 if a operation failed.
.I mt\^
without any arguments defaults to
.BR help .
.SH FILES
.br
/dev/rmt1	Raw magnetic Quarter Inch Cartridge Tape drive
.br
/dev/rmt2	No rewind Quarter Inch Cartridge Tape drive
.br
/dev/rmt3	Raw magnetic Half Inch tape drive
.br
/dev/rmt4	No-rewind Half Inch tape drive
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mtio(7)
