'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NEWS 1
.SH NAME
news \- print news items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B news
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-s
] [ items ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I News\^
is used to keep the user informed of current events.
By convention, these events are described by files in
the directory
.BR /usr/news .
.PP
When invoked without arguments,
.I news\^
prints the contents of all current files in
.BR /usr/news ,
most recent first,
with each preceded by an appropriate header.
.I News\^
stores the "currency" time
as the modification date of a file named
.B .news_time
in the user's home directory (the identity of this directory
is determined by the environment variable
.SM
.BR $HOME\*S );
only files more recent than
this currency time are considered "current".
.PP
The
.B \-a
option causes
.I news\^
to print all items, regardless of currency.
In this case, the stored time is not changed.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option causes
.I news\^
to report the names of the current items without
printing their contents, and without changing
the stored time.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option causes
.I news\^
to report how many current items exist, without
printing their names or contents, and without changing
the stored time.
It is useful to include such an invocation of
.I news\^
in one's
.B .profile
file, or in the system's
.BR /etc/profile .
.PP
All other arguments
are assumed to be specific news items that are to
be printed.
.PP
If a
.I delete\^
is typed during the printing of a news item, printing stops and the
next item is started.
Another
.I delete\^
within one second of the first
causes the program to terminate.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
news
.PP
will print out all files in 
.B /usr/news
that have not been read
previously by the account owner.
.SH FILES
/etc/profile
.br
/usr/news/\(**
.br
\&\s-1$HOME\s+1/\f3.\fPnews_time
.SH SEE ALSO
profile(4), environ(5).
.\"	@(#)news.1	5.1 of 11/9/83
