'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NM 1
.SH NAME
nm \- print name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm
[
.B \-gnoprsu
]
[ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nm\^
prints the name list (symbol table) of each object
.I file\^
in the argument list.
If an argument
is an archive, a listing for each object
file in the archive will be produced.
If no
.I file\^
is given, the symbols in
.B a.out
are listed.
.PP
Each symbol name is preceded by its value (blanks if undefined)
and one of the letters
.B U
(undefined),
.B A
(absolute),
.B T
(text segment symbol),
.B D
(data segment symbol),
.B B
(bss segment symbol),
.B R
(register symbol),
.B F
(file symbol),
or
.B C
(common symbol).
If the symbol is local (non-external) the type letter is in
lower case.
The output is sorted alphabetically.
.PP
Options are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-p\f1\ \ 'u"
.B  \-g
Print only global (external) symbols.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort numerically rather than alphabetically.
.TP
.B  \-o
Prepend file or archive element name to each
output line rather than only once.
This option can be used to make piping to
.IR grep\^ (1)
more meaningful.
.TP
.B  \-p
Don't sort; print in symbol-table order.
.TP
.B  \-r
Sort in reverse order.
.TP
.B \-s
Sort according to the size of the external 
symbol (computed from
the difference between the value of the symbol and the
value of the symbol with the next highest value).
This difference is the value printed.
This flag turns on
.B \-g
and
.B \-n
and turns off
.B \-u
and
.BR \-p .
.TP
.B  \-u
Print only undefined symbols.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
nm
.PP
prints the symbol list of
.B a.out ,
the default output file for the C compiler.
.SH SEE ALSO
ar(1), a.out(4), ar(4).
.\"	@(#)nm.1	5.1 of 11/9/83
