'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NROFF 1
.SH NAME
nroff \- format text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nroff
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nroff\^
formats text contained in
.I files\^
(standard input by default)
for printing on typewriter-like devices
and line printers.
Its capabilities are described in the
.I N\s-1ROFF\s+1\^/\^T\s-1ROFF\s+1 User's Manual\^
cited below.
.PP
An argument consisting of a minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The
.IR options ,
which may appear in any order, but must appear
before the
.IR files ,
are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\|\f2name\f1\^\ \ 'u"
.BI \-o\| list\^
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the
.I list\^
of numbers and ranges, separated by commas.
A range
.IB N \- M\^
means pages
.I N\^
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.BI \- N\^
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IB N \-
means
from
.I N\^
to the end.
(See
.SM
.I BUGS\^
below.)
.TP
.BI \-n\| N\^
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s\| N\^
Stop every
.I N\^
pages.
.I Nroff\^
will halt
.I after\^
every
.I N\^
pages (default
.IR N\^ =1)
to allow paper loading or
changing, and will resume upon receipt of a line-feed or new-line
(new-lines do not work in pipelines, e.g., with
.IR mm\^ (1)).
This option does not work if the output of
.I nroff\^
is piped through
.IR col\^ (1).
When
.I nroff\^
halts between pages, an
.SM ASCII
.SM
.B BEL
is sent to the terminal.
.TP
.BI \-r\| aN\^
Set register
.I a\^
(which must have a one-character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after
.I files\^
are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B \&.rd
request.
.TP
.B \-z
Print only messages generated by
.B \&.tm
(terminal message)
requests.
.TP
.BI \-m\| name\^
Prepend to the input
.I files\^
the non-compacted (\s-1ASCII\s+1 text) macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name\^ .
.TP
.BI \-c\| name\^
Prepend to the input
.na
.I files\^
the compacted macro files
.BR /usr/lib/macros/cmp. [ nt ] .\c
.RB [ dt ] .\f2name\fP\^
and
.BR /usr/lib/macros/ucmp. [ nt ] .\f2name\fP\^ .
.ad
.TP
.BI \-k\| name\^
Compact the macros used in this
invocation of
.IR nroff ,
placing the output in files
.RB [ dt ] .\f2name\fP\^
in the current directory.
.TP
.BI \-T\| name\^
Prepare output for specified terminal.
Known
.IR name\| s
are
.B 37
for the (default)
.SM TELETYPE\*S\*R
Model 37 terminal,
.B tn300
for the
.SM GE
TermiNet\ 300 (or any terminal without half-line
capability),
.B 300s
for the
.SM DASI
300s,
.B 300
for the
.SM DASI
300,
.B 450
for the
.SM DASI
450,
.B lp
for a (generic)
.SM ASCII
line printer,
.B 382
for the
.SM DTC\*S-382,
.B 4000A
for the Trendata 4000A,
.B 832
for the Anderson Jacobson 832,
.B X
for a (generic)
.SM EBCDIC
printer, and
.B 2631
for the Hewlett Packard 2631 line printer.
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using the full resolution of the particular terminal.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every
8 nominal character widths.
.TP
.BI \-u\| n\^
Set the emboldening factor (number of character overstrikes) for the
third font position (bold) to
.IR n ,
or to zero if
.I n\^
is missing.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
nroff -o4,8-10 -T300S -mabc file1 file2
.PP
requests formatting of pages 4, 8, 9, and 10 of a document
contained in the files named "file1" and "file2", specifies the output terminal
as a \s-1DASI\s+1-300S, and invokes the macro package 
.IR abc .
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fP\(**\ \ 'u
.PD 0
/usr/lib/suftab	suffix hyphenation tables
.PP
/usr/tmp/ta$#	temporary file
.PP
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fP\(**	standard macro files and pointers
.PP
/usr/lib/macros/\(**	standard macro files
.PP
/usr/lib/term/\(**	terminal driving tables for
.I nroff\^
.PD
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
col(1), cw(1), eqn(1), greek(1), mm(1),
tbl(1), troff(1), mm(5).
.br
.I N\s-1ROFF\s+1\^/\^T\s-1ROFF\s+1 User's Manual\^
.br
.I "A T\s-1ROFF\s+1 Tutorial\^"
.SH BUGS
.I Nroff\^
believes in Eastern Standard Time;
as a result, depending on the time of the year and on your local time zone,
the date that
.I nroff\^
generates may be off by one day from your idea of what the date is.
.PP
When
.I nroff\^
is used with the
.BI \-o\| list\^
option inside a pipeline
(e.g., with one or more of
.IR cw\^ (1),
.IR eqn\^ (1),
and
.IR tbl\^ (1)),
it may cause a harmless "broken pipe" diagnostic
if the last page of the document is not specified in
.IR list .
.\"	@(#)nroff.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
