'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PROF 1 
.SH NAME
prof \- display profile data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prof
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-l
] [
.BR \- "low [ " \- "high ]"
] [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prof\^
interprets the file
.B mon.out
produced by the
.IR monitor\^ (3C)
subroutine.
Under default modes,
the symbol table in the
named object file
.RB ( a.out
default)
is read and correlated with the
.B mon.out
profile file.
For each external symbol, the percentage
of time spent executing between that symbol
and the next
is printed (in decreasing order),
together with the number of times that routine was called
and the number of milliseconds per call.
.PP
If the
.B \-a
option is used,
all symbols are reported rather than
just external symbols.
If the
.B \-l
option
is used,
the output is listed by
symbol value rather than
decreasing percentage.
.PP
The optional arguments
.I low\^
and 
.IR high ,
by default 0 and 100, cause a selected
percentage of the profile to be plotted
with accordingly higher resolution.
.PP
In order for the number of calls to a routine to be tallied,
the
.B \-p
option of
.I cc\^
must have been given when the file containing the
routine was compiled.
This option also arranges for the
.B mon.out
file to be produced automatically.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
If 
.B a.out
has been compiled with the 
.B \-p
option and
has been executed, then
.IP
prof a.out
.PP
would print profile information for each routine in 
.BR a.out .
.SH FILES
.ta \w'mon.out\ \ \ \ 'u
mon.out	for profile
.br
a.out	for namelist
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cc(1), profil(2), monitor(3C).
.SH BUGS
Beware of quantization errors.
.\"	@(#)prof.1	5.1 of 11/9/83
