'\" t
'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ~ 
.ds P UNIX
.TH PRS 1
.SH NAME
prs \- print an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prs
.RB [ \-d\^ [dataspec]]
.RB [ \-r\^ [\s-1SID\s+1]]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-l\^ ]
.RB [ \-a ]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prs\^
prints, on the standard output, parts or all of an 
.SM SCCS 
file
(see
.IR sccsfile\^ (4))
in a user supplied format.
If a directory is named,
.I prs\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \f3s.\fP),
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \f3\-\fP is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
or directory
to be processed;
non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
Arguments to
.IR prs ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
.I keyletter\^
arguments, and file names.
.PP
All the described
.I keyletter\^
arguments apply independently to each named file:
.TP "\w'\f3\-d\f1[\f2\^dataspec\^\f1]\ \ \ 'u"
\f3\-d\f1[\f2\^dataspec\^\f1]
Used to specify the output data specification.
The
.I dataspec\^
is a string consisting of 
.SM SCCS 
file
.I "data keywords\^"
(see
.IR "\s-1DATA KEYWORDS\^\s+1" )
interspersed with optional user supplied text.
.TP
\f3\-r\f1[\^\f2\s-1SID\s+1\^\f1]
Used to specify the
.IR S\^ \s-1CCS\s+1
.IR ID\^ entification
(\s-1SID\s+1)
string
of a delta for
which information is desired.
If no \s-1SID\s+1 is specified, 
the \s-1SID\s+1 of the most recently created delta
is assumed.
.TP
\f3\-e\f1
Requests
information for all deltas created
.I earlier\^
than and including the delta designated via the
.B \-r
keyletter.
.TP
\f3\-l\f1
Requests
information for all deltas created
.I later\^
than and including the delta designated via the
.B \-r
keyletter.
.TP
\f3\-a\f1
Requests
printing of information for both removed,
i.e., delta type =
.IR R ,
(see
.IR rmdel\^ (1))
and existing,
i.e., delta type =
.IR D ,
deltas.
If the
.B \-a
keyletter is not specified,
information for existing deltas only is provided.
.SH "DATA KEYWORDS"
Data keywords
specify which parts of an 
.SM SCCS 
file are to be retrieved and output.
All parts of an 
.SM SCCS
file (see
.IR sccsfile\^ (4))
have an associated data keyword.
There is no limit on the number of times a data keyword
may appear in a
.IR dataspec .
.PP
The information printed by
.I prs\^
consists of:
(1) the user supplied text; and
(2) appropriate values (extracted from the 
.SM SCCS 
file)
substituted for the recognized data keywords
in the order of appearance in the \f2dataspec\^\fP.
The format of a data keyword value is either
.I Simple\^
(S), in which
keyword substitution is direct, or
.I "Multi-line\^"
(M), in which keyword substitution is followed
by a carriage return.
.PP
User supplied text
is any text other than
recognized data keywords.
A tab is specified
by \f3\et\fP and carriage return/new-line is specified by \f3\en\fP.
.sp 2
.in 0
.if t .ps -1
.if t .vs -1p
.TS
center expand ;
c s s s s
cI lIw(20m) cI1 cI1 cI0
c l c c c .
\s+1TABLE 1.\| SCCS Files Data Keywords\s-1
.sp 1.5p
Keyword	Data Item	File Section	Value	Format
\f3:\fPDt\f3:\fP	Delta information	Delta Table	See below*	S
\f3:\fPDL\f3:\fP	T{
Delta line statistics
T}	"	\f3:\fPLi\f3:\fP/\f3:\fPLd\f3:\fP/\f3:\fPLu\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPLi\f3:\fP	T{
Lines inserted by Delta
T}	"	nnnnn	S
\f3:\fPLd\f3:\fP	T{
Lines deleted by Delta
T}	"	nnnnn	S
\f3:\fPLu\f3:\fP	T{
Lines unchanged by Delta
T}	"	nnnnn	S
\f3:\fPDT\f3:\fP	Delta type	"	\f2D\^\fP~or~\f2R\^\fP	S
\f3:\fPI\f3:\fP	T{
SCCS ID string (SID)
T}	"	\f3:\fPR\f3:.:\fPL\f3:.:\fPB\f3:.:\fPS\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPR\f3:\fP	Release number	"	nnnn	S
\f3:\fPL\f3:\fP	Level number	"	nnnn	S
\f3:\fPB\f3:\fP	Branch number	"	nnnn	S
\f3:\fPS\f3:\fP	Sequence number	"	nnnn	S
\f3:\fPD\f3:\fP	T{
Date Delta created
T}	"	\f3:\fPDy\f3:\fP/\f3:\fPDm\f3:\fP/\f3:\fPDd\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPDy\f3:\fP	T{
Year Delta created
T}	"	nn	S
\f3:\fPDm\f3:\fP	T{
Month Delta created
T}	"	nn	S
\f3:\fPDd\f3:\fP	T{
Day Delta created
T}	"	nn	S
\f3:\fPT\f3:\fP	T{
Time Delta created
T}	"	\f3:\fPTh\f3:\fP\f3:\fP:Tm\f3:\fP\f3:\fP:Ts\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPTh\f3:\fP	T{
Hour Delta created
T}	"	nn	S
\f3:\fPTm\f3:\fP	T{
Minutes Delta created
T}	"	nn	S
\f3:\fPTs\f3:\fP	T{
Seconds Delta created
T}	"	nn	S
\f3:\fPP\f3:\fP	T{
Programmer who created Delta
T}	"	logname	S
\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP	T{
Delta sequence number
T}	"	nnnn	S
\f3:\fPDP\f3:\fP	T{
Predecessor Delta seq-no.
T}	"	nnnn	S
\f3:\fPDI\f3:\fP	T{
Seq-no. of deltas incl., excl., ignored
T}	"	\f3:\fPDn\f3:\fP/\f3:\fPDx\f3:\fP/\f3:\fPDg\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPDn\f3:\fP	Deltas included (seq #)	"	\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP\|\f3.\^.\^.\fP	S
\f3:\fPDx\f3:\fP	Deltas excluded (seq #)	"	\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP\|\f3.\^.\^.\fP	S
\f3:\fPDg\f3:\fP	Deltas ignored (seq #)	"	\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP\|\f3.\^.\^.\fP	S
\f3:\fPMR\f3:\fP	MR numbers for delta	"	text	M
\f3:\fPC\f3:\fP	Comments for delta	"	text	M
\f3:\fPUN\f3:\fP	User names	User Names	text	M
\f3:\fPFL\f3:\fP	Flag list	Flags	text	M
\f3:\fPY\f3:\fP	Module type flag	"	text	S
\f3:\fPMF\f3:\fP	T{
MR validation flag
T}	"	\f2yes\^\fP~or~\f2no\^\fP	S
\f3:\fPMP\f3:\fP	T{
MR validation pgm name
T}	"	text	S
\f3:\fPKF\f3:\fP	T{
Keyword error/warning flag
T}	"	\f2yes\^\fP~or~\f2no\^\fP	S
\f3:\fPBF\f3:\fP	Branch flag	"	\f2yes\^\fP~or~\f2no\^\fP	S
\f3:\fPJ\f3:\fP	Joint edit flag	"	\f2yes\^\fP~or~\f2no\^\fP	S
\f3:\fPLK\f3:\fP	Locked releases	"	\f3:\fPR\f3:\fP\|\f3.\^.\^.\fP	S
\f3:\fPQ\f3:\fP	User defined keyword	"	text	S
\f3:\fPM\f3:\fP	Module name	"	text	S
\f3:\fPFB\f3:\fP	Floor boundary	"	\f3:\fPR\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPCB\f3:\fP	Ceiling boundary	"	\f3:\fPR\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPDs\f3:\fP	Default SID	"	\f3:\fPI\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPND\f3:\fP	Null delta flag	"	\f2yes\^\fP~or~\f2no\^\fP	S
\f3:\fPFD\f3:\fP	T{
File descriptive text
T}	Comments	text	M
\f3:\fPBD\f3:\fP	Body	Body	text	M
\f3:\fPGB\f3:\fP	Gotten body	"	text	M
\f3:\fPW\f3:\fP	T{
A form of \f2what\^\fP(1) string
T}	N/A	\f3:\fPZ\f3:\fP\f3:\fPM\f3:\fP\et\f3:\fPI\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPA\f3:\fP	T{
A form of \f2what\^\fP(1) string
T}	N/A	\f3:\fPZ\f3:\fP\f3:\fPY\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPM\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPI\f3:\fP\f3:\fPZ\f3:\fP	S
\f3:\fPZ\f3:\fP	T{
\f2what\^\fP(1) string delimiter
T}	N/A	@\&(#)	S
\f3:\fPF\f3:\fP	SCCS file name	N/A	text	S
\f3:\fPPN\f3:\fP	SCCS file path name	N/A	text	S
	* \f3:\fPDt\f3:\fP~=~\f3:\fPDT\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPI\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPD\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPT\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPP\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPDS\f3:\fP~\f3:\fPDP\f3:\fP
.TE
.if t .ps +1
.if t .vs +1p
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
prs \-d"Users and/or user \s-1ID\s+1s for \f3:\fPF\f3:\fP are\f3:\fP\en\f3:\fP\s-1UN\s+1\f3:\fP" s\f3.\fPfile
.PP
may produce on the standard output:
.PP
.RS .3i
.nf
Users and/or user \s-1ID\s+1s for s\f3.\fPfile are\f3:\fP
xyz
131
abc
.fi
.RE
.IP
prs \-d"Newest delta for pgm \f3:\fPM\f3:\fP\f3:\fP \f3:\fPI\f3:\fP Created \f3:\fPD\f3:\fP By \f3:\fPP\f3:\fP" \-r s\f3.\fPfile
.PP
may produce on the standard output:
.RS .3i
Newest delta for pgm main\f3.\fPc\f3:\fP 3\f3.\fP7 Created 77/12/1 By cas
.RE
.PP
As a \f2special case\^\fP:
.IP
prs s\f3.\fPfile
.PP
may produce on the standard output:
.PP
.RS .3i
.nf
D 1\f3.\fP1 77/12/1 00\f3:\fP00\f3:\fP00 cas 1 000000/00000/00000
\s-1MR\s+1s\f3:\fP
bl78-12345
bl79-54321
\s-1COMMENTS\s+1\f3:\fP
this is the comment line for s\f3.\fPfile initial delta
.fi
.RE
.PP
for each delta table entry of the "D" type.
The only keyletter argument allowed to be used with the
.I "special case\^"
is the
.B \-a
keyletter.
.SH FILES
/tmp/pr?????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
admin(1),
delta(1),
get(1),
help(1),
sccsfile(4).
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help\^ (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)prs.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
