'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PS 1
.SH NAME
ps \- process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps
[
.B acegklstuvwx#
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ps\^
prints information about processes.
Normally, only your processes are candidates to be printed by
.I ps;
specifying
.B a
causes other users processes to be candidates to be printed;
specifying
.B x
includes processes without control terminals in the candidate pool.
.PP
All output formats include, for each process, the process id PID,
control terminal of the process TT, cpu time used by the process TIME
(this includes both user and system time), the state STAT of the process,
and an indication of the COMMAND which is running.
The state is given by a sequence of four letters, e.g. ``RWNA''.
The first letter indicates the runnability of the process:
R for runnable processes,
T for stopped processes,
P for processes in page wait,
D for those in disk (or other short term) waits,
S for those sleeping for less than about 20 seconds,
and I for idle (sleeping longer than about 20 seconds)
processes.
The second letter indicates whether a process is swapped out,
showing W if it is, or a blank if it is loaded (in-core).
The third letter indicates whether a process is running with altered
CPU scheduling priority (nice); if the process priority is reduced,
an N is shown, if the process priority has been artificially raised then
a `<' is shown; processes running without special treatment have just a
blank.
.PP
The options are:
.TP 5
.B a
asks for information about all processes with terminals (ordinarily
only one's own processes are displayed).
.TP 5
.B c
prints the command name, as stored internally in the system for purposes
of accounting, rather than the command arguments, which are kept
in the process' address space.  This is more reliable, if less informative,
since the process is free to destroy the latter information.
.TP 5
.B e
asks for the environment to be printed as well as the arguments to the command.
.TP 5
.B g
asks for all processes.
Without this option,
.I ps
only prints ``interesting'' processes.
Processes are deemed to be uninteresting if they are process group leaders.
This normally eliminates top-level command interpreters and processes
waiting for users to login on free terminals.
.TP 5
.B k
causes the file
.I /vmcore
is used in place of
.I /dev/kmem
and
.IR /dev/mem .
This is used for
postmortem system debugging.
.TP 5
.B l
asks for a long listing, with fields PPID, CP, PRI, NI, ADDR, SIZE, RSS and
WCHAN as described below.
.TP 5
.B s
adds the size SSIZ of the kernel stack of each process (for use by system
maintainers) to the basic output format.
.TP 5
\f3t\f2x\f1
restricts output to processes whose controlling tty is \f2x\f1
(which should be specified as printed by
.I ps,
e.g.
.I t3
for tty3,
.I tco
for console,
.I td0
for ttyd0,
.I t?
for processes with no tty,
.I t
for processes at the current tty,
etc).
This option must be the last one given.
.TP 5
.B u
produces a user oriented output.
This includes fields USER, %CPU, NICE, SIZE, and RSS as described below.
.TP 5
.B v
causes a version of the output which contains virtual memory statistics.
This includes fields RE, SL, PAGEIN, SIZE, RSS, TSIZ, TRS, %CPU
and %MEM, described below.
.TP 5
.B w
uses a wide output format (132 columns rather than 80); if repeated,
e.g. ww, use arbitrarily wide output.
This information is used to decide how much of long commands to print.
.TP 5
.B x
even supplies information about processes with no terminal.
.TP 5
.B #
specifies a process number,
(indicated here by #),
in which case the output
is restricted to that process.
This option must be last.
.PP
A second argument is taken
to be the file containing the system's
namelist.  Otherwise, /vmunix is used.
A third argument tells
.I ps
where to look for
.I core
if the
.B k
option is given, instead of /vmcore.
If a fourth argument is given, it
is taken to be the name of a swap file to use instead of
the default /dev/drum.
.PP
Fields which are not common to all output formats:
.PD 0
.IP USER 10
name of the owner of the process
.IP %CPU 10
cpu utilization of the process; this is a decaying average over up to
a minute of previous (real) time.  Since the time base over which this
is computed varies (since processes may be very young) it is possible
for the sum of all %CPU fields to exceed 100%.
.IP NICE 10
(or NI) process scheduling increment
.IP SIZE 10
virtual size of the process (in 1024 byte units)
.IP RSS 10
real memory (resident set) size of the process (in 1024 byte units)
.IP TSIZ 10
size of text (shared program) image
.IP TRS 10
size of resident (real memory) set of text
.IP %MEM 10
percentage of real memory used by this process.
.IP RE 10
residency time of the process (seconds in core)
.IP SL 10
sleep time of the process (seconds blocked)
.IP PAGEIN 10
number of disk i/o's resulting from references by the process
to pages not loaded in core.
.IP UID 10
numerical user-id of process owner
.IP PPID 10
numerical id of parent of process
.IP CP 10
short-term cpu utilization factor (used in scheduling)
.IP PRI 10
process priority (non-positive when in non-interruptible wait)
.IP ADDR 10
swap address of the process
.IP WCHAN 10
event on which process is waiting (an address in the system).
.sp
.IP F 10
flags associated with process as in
.RI \s-2<\s0 sys/proc.h \s-2>\s0:
.br
.PP
.sp
.nf
.ta 6n 18n 26n
	SLOAD	000001	in core
	SSYS	000002	swapper or pager process
	SLOCK	000004	process being swapped out
	SSWAP	000008	save area flag
	STRC	000010	process is being traced
	SWTED	000020	another tracing flag
	SULOCK	000040	user settable lock in core
	SPAGE	000080	process in page wait state
	SKEEP	000100	another flag to prevent swap out
	SWEXIT	000200	working on exiting
	SPHYSIO	000400	doing physical i/o (bio.c)
	STIMO	000800	timing out during sleep
	SGR	001000	process using graphics
	SPTECHG	002000	ptes for process have changed
	SPHYS	004000	process has phys region
.fi
.PD
.PP
A process that has exited and has a parent, but has not
yet been waited for by the parent is marked \s-2<\s0defunct\s-2>\s0; a process
which is blocked trying to exit is marked \s-2<\s0exiting\s-2>\s0;
.I Ps
makes an educated guess as to the file name
and arguments given when the process was created
by examining memory or the swap area.
The method is inherently somewhat unreliable and in any event
a process is entitled to destroy this information,
so the names cannot be counted on too much.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/sys/core 'u
/vmunix	system namelist
.br
/dev/kmem	kernel memory
.br
/dev/drum	swap device
.br
/vmcore	core file
.br
/dev	searched to find swap device and tty names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(1), w(1)
.SH BUGS
Things can change while
.I ps
is running; the picture it gives is only a close
approximation.
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/ps.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:48:29 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	ps.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:48:29  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.6  85/05/02  18:20:54  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  84/12/11  13:37:32  bob
.\" Cleaned up formatting
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  84/11/14  16:09:50  bob
.\" 
