'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PTX 1
.SH NAME
ptx \- permuted index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ptx
[ options ] [ input [ output ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ptx\^
generates the file
.I output\^
that can be
processed with a text formatter
to produce a permuted index of file
.I input\^
(standard input and output default).
It has three phases: the first does the permutation, generating
one line for each keyword in an input line.
The keyword is rotated to the front.
The permuted file is then
sorted.
Finally, the sorted lines are rotated so the keyword
comes at the middle of each line.
.I Ptx\^
output is in the form:
.IP
\&\f3.xx\fP "tail" "before keyword" "keyword and after" "head"
.PP
where
.B \&.xx
is assumed to be an
.I nroff\^
or
.IR troff\^
macro provided by the user,
or provided by the
.IR mptx\^ (5)
macro package.
The
.I "before keyword\^"
and
.I "keyword and after\^"
fields incorporate as much of the line as will fit
around the keyword when it is printed.
.I Tail\^
and
.IR head ,
at least one of which is always the empty string,
are wrapped-around pieces small enough to fit
in the unused space at the opposite end of the line.
.PP
The following \f2options\fP can be applied:
.TP "\w'\f3\-b\ \f2break\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BR \-f
Fold upper and lower case letters for sorting.
.TP
.BR \-t
Prepare the output for the phototypesetter.
.TP
.BI \-w " n\^"
Use the next argument,
.IR n ,
as the length of the output line.
The default line length is 72 characters for
.I nroff\^
and 100 for
.IR troff .
.TP
.BI \-g " n\^"
Use the next argument,
.IR n ,
as the number of characters that
.I ptx\^
will reserve in its calculations for each gap
among the four parts of the line as finally printed.
The default gap is 3.
.TP
.BI \-o " only\^"
Use as keywords only the words given in the \f2only\f1 file.
.TP
.BI \-i " ignore"
Do not use as keywords any words given in the
.I ignore\^
file.
If the
.B \-i
and
.B \-o
options are missing, use
.B /usr/lib/eign
as the
.I ignore\^
file.
.TP
.BI \-b " break"
Use the characters in the
.I break\^
file to separate words.
Tab, new-line, and space characters are
.I always\^
used as break characters.
.TP
.BR \-r
Take any leading non-blank characters of each input line to
be a reference identifier (as to a page or chapter),
separate from the text of the line.
Attach that identifier as a 5th field on each output line.
.PP
The index for this manual was generated using
.IR ptx .
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP "\w'If \ file1\  contains:\ \ \ 'u"
If "file1" contains:
once upon a time
.br
in the middle of a large
.br
dark forest
.IP "" 5
ptx file1
.PP
responds with:
.IP
\&.xx "" "" "dark forest" ""
.br
\&.xx "" "dark" "forest" ""
.br
\&.xx "" "in the middle of a" "large" ""
.br
\&.xx "" "in the" "middle of a large" ""
.br
\&.xx "" "" "once upon a time" ""
.br
\&.xx "" "once" "upon a time" ""
.SH FILES
/bin/sort
.br
/usr/lib/eign
.br
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.ptx
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
nroff(1), troff(1), mm(5), mptx(5).
.SH BUGS
Line length counts do not account for overstriking or
proportional spacing.
.br
Lines that contain tildes (\f3~\fP) are botched,
because
. I ptx
uses that character internally.
.\"	@(#)ptx.1	5.1 of 11/17/83
