'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RADAR 1D
.SH NAME
radar \- flight controller's view of the Ethernet dogfight
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.B /usr/people/demos/radar
[
.B \-i
infile]
.in
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The 
.I radar 
demo allows passive observation of the
\f2dog\f1(1D)
environment.
The 
.I radar
operator sees a simulated radar screen showing the location, aircraft type,
speed, direction, and altitude of each aircraft in the game.
A message facility allows the 
.I radar
operator to send messages to the pilots.
.PP
The program asks your name and broadcasts it to the 
.I dog
world.
The initial display is a help menu.
Any key starts the program.
At any time when using the demo, the
.I h
key
brings back the help page.
.PP
The 
.I z
and 
.I x
keys increase and decrease the field of view.
The
.I arrow
keys move the point of view one square in the indicated direction.
.PP
The right mouse button allows the mouse valuators to drag the image.
Press the left or middle mouse button for a prompt to send a
message to the plane nearest the cursor or the whole world respectively.
.SH Display
The display shows a stylized view of the 
.I dog
runway environment.
Each aircraft's position is represented by an isosceles triangle pointed
in the direction of the plane's heading.
The vector from the front of the triangle shows its course and speed.
The trail of dots shows where the plane has been for the past 16
seconds.
Each plane has an ID block including the name of the pilot, the type of
aircraft, the airspeed in knots, the sign of the rate of climb, and the
altitude in hundreds of feet.
Sidewinders are shown as red blobs.
Rockets are orange, cannon shells yellow.
.SH Airshow Option
The
.B \-i
option
reads the aircraft positions from 
.IR infile .
.I infile
should be created by 
using
the
.BR \-o 
option to 
.IR dog\^ (1D).
This allows passive observation of the ``airshow'' recorded in 
.IR infile .
Broadcast messages are not of much use in this mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
dog(1D), flight(1D), shadow(1D)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Gary Tarolli
