'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RCSMERGE 1
.SH NAME
rcsmerge \- merge RCS revisions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3rcsmerge\f1 \f3\-r\f2rev1\f1 [ \f3\-r\f2rev2\f1 ] [ \f3\-p\f1 ] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rcsmerge
incorporates the changes between \f2rev1\f1 and \f2rev2\f1 of an
RCS file into the corresponding working file. If \f3\-p\f1 is given, the result
is printed on the std. output, otherwise the result overwrites the
working file.
.PP
A file name ending in ',v' is an RCS file name, otherwise a
working file name. \f2merge\f1 derives the working file name from the RCS
file name and vice versa, as explained in \f2co\f1(1). A pair consisting
of both an RCS and a working file name may also be specified.
.PP
\f2rev1\f1 may not be omitted. If \f2rev2\f1 is omitted, the latest
revision on the trunk is assumed.
Both \f2rev1\f1 and \f2rev2\f1 may be given numerically or symbolically.
.PP
\f2rcsmerge\f1 prints a warning if there are overlaps, and delimits
the overlapping regions as explained in the \f3\-j\f1 version of
\f2co\f1.
The command is useful for incorporating changes into a checked-out revision.
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you have released revision 2.8 of f.c. Assume
furthermore that you just completed revision 3.4, when you receive
updates to release 2.8 from someone else.
To combine the updates to 2.8 and your changes between 2.8 and 3.4,
put the updates to 2.8 into file f.c and execute
.sp
        rcsmerge  \-p  \-r2.8  \-r3.4  f.c  >f.merged.c
.sp
Then examine f.merged.c.
Alternatively, if you want to save the updates to 2.8 in the RCS file,
check them in as revision 2.8.1.1 and execute \f2co \-j\f1:
.sp
        ci  \-r2.8.1.1  f.c
        co  \-r3.4  \-j2.8:2.8.1.1  f.c
.sp
As another example, the following command undoes the changes
between revision 2.4 and 2.8 in your currently checked out revision
in f.c.
.sp
        rcsmerge  \-r2.8  \-r2.4  f.c
.sp
Note the order of the arguments, and that f.c will be
overwritten.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Walter F. Tichy,
.br
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907.
.br
Copyright \(co 1982 by Walter F. Tichy.
.SH SEE ALSO
ci(1), co(1), merge(1), ident(1), rcs(1), rcsdiff(1), rlog(1), rcsfile(4).
.sp 0
Walter F. Tichy, ``Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of a Revision Control
System,'' in \f2Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Software
Engineering\f1, IEEE, Tokyo, Sept. 1982.
.SH BUGS
\f2rcsmerge\f1 does not work for
files that contain lines with a single `.'.
