'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RLOGIN 1C
.UC 5
.SH NAME
rlogin \- remote login 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlogin
rhost [
\f3\-e\f1\f2\|c\f1
] [
.B \-8
] [
.B \-L
] [
.B \-l
username ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rlogin
connects your terminal on the current local host system
.I lhost
to the remote host system
.I rhost.
.PP
Each host has a file
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
which contains a list of \f2rhost\f1's with which it shares account names.
(The host names must be the standard names as described in
.IR rsh (1C).)
When you
.I rlogin
as the same user on an equivalent host, you don't need
to give a password.
Each user may also have a private equivalence list in a file \f3\&.rhosts\f1
in his login directory.  Each line in this file should contain an \f2rhost\fP
and a \f2username\fP separated by a space, giving additional cases
where logins without passwords are to be permitted.
If the originating user is not equivalent to the remote user, then
a login and password will be prompted for on the remote machine as in
.IR login (1).
To avoid some security problems, the \&.rhosts file must be owned by
either the remote user or root.
.PP
The remote terminal type is the same as your local
terminal type (as given in your environment TERM variable).
The TERM
value ``wsiris'' is converted
to ``rwsiris'' when sent to the host.
If TERM is ``iris-ansi'',
.I rlogin
sets the remote shell's TERM to ``iris-ansi-net''.
All echoing takes place at the remote site, so that (except for
delays) the rlogin is transparent.  Flow control via ^S and ^Q and
flushing of input and output on interrupts are handled properly.
The optional argument
.B \-8
allows an eight-bit input data path at all times;
otherwise parity bits are stripped except when the remote side's
stop and start characters are other than ^S/^Q.
The argument
.B \-L
allows the rlogin session to be run in litout mode.
A line of the form ``~.'' disconnects from the remote host, where
``~'' is the escape character.
A line starting with ``\e~ !'' starts a shell on the IRIS.
A different escape character may
be specified by the
.B \-e
option.
There is no space separating this option flag and the argument
character.  See 
.I rlogind (1M)
for enhancements to the environment propagation.
.SH EXAMPLE
In this example, by linking one file to another, if you execute
``olympus'', you are automatically rlogged into olympus:
.br
	ln -s /usr/bin/rlogin  /usr/local/bin/olympus
.SH SEE ALSO
rsh(1C)
.SH BUGS
More of the environment should be propagated.
