'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RM 1 
.SH NAME
rm, rmdir  \- remove files or directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rm
[
.B \-fri
] ... [
.B \-
] file ...
.PP
.B rmdir
dir ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rm\^
removes the entries for one or more
files
from a directory.
If an entry was the last link to the file, the file
is destroyed.
Removal of a file requires write permission in its directory,
but neither read nor write permission on the file itself.
.PP
If a file has no write permission
and the standard input is a terminal,
its permissions are printed and a line is read from
the standard input.
If that line begins with \f3y\fP the file is deleted,
otherwise the file remains.
No questions are asked
when the
.B \-f
option is given
or if the standard input is not a terminal.
.PP
If a designated file is a directory,
an error comment is printed unless the optional
argument
.B \-r
has been used.
In that case,
.I rm\^
recursively deletes the
entire contents of the specified directory,
and the directory itself.
Symbolic links are not followed.
.PP
If the
.B \-i
(interactive) option is in effect,
.I rm\^
asks whether to delete each file,
and, under
.BR \-r ,
whether to examine each directory.
.PP
.I Rm\^
accepts flags as separate or combined arguments.
An argument consisting solely of
.B \-
will cause
.I rm\^
to treat any occurrence of a \- in a following argument as part of a file name.
.PP
.I Rmdir\^
removes entries for the named directories,
which must be empty.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
rm \-r dirname
.PP
will remove the entire contents of the named directory and
all subdirectories, and
finally the directory itself, with no questions asked.
.IP
rm \-ri dirname
.br
rm \-r \-i dirname
.PP
will recursively and interactively remove the tree rooted at
.IR dirname .
.IP
rm \-i \- \-f
.PP
will interactively remove the tree rooted at
.IR \-f .
.SH SEE ALSO
link(1M), unlink(2).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Generally self-explanatory.
Exit status is non-zero if an attempt to remove a file fails and the
.B \-f
flag is not supplied.
It is forbidden to remove the file \f3..\fP merely to avoid the
antisocial consequences of inadvertently doing something like:
.IP
"rm \-r .\(**"
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/rm.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:49:24 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	rm.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:49:24  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.7  86/04/16  09:05:25  celia
.\" cosmetic
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  85/08/06  16:08:26  robinf
.\" Cosmetic changes
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  85/06/17  15:48:13  robinf
.\" Cosmetic changes for GL2-2.3 and GL1-2.3
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  85/06/17  15:47:29  robinf
.\" Cosmetic changes for GL2-2.3 and GL1-2.3
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  85/05/15  15:10:06  robinf
.\" Updates for GL2-W2.3 and GL1-W2.2
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  84/11/13  12:06:23  bob
.\" Documented new allowable syntax, also exit codes.
.\" 
