'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RMDEL 1
.SH NAME
rmdel \- remove a delta from an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmdel
.if n .ul
\f3\-r\f1\c
.if n .ul 0
\s-1SID\s0
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmdel\^
removes the delta specified by the
.SM \f2SID\fP
from each
named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
The delta to be removed must be the newest (most recent) delta
in its branch in the delta chain of each
named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file.
In addition,
the 
.SM SID
specified must
.I not\^
be that of a version being edited for the purpose of
making a delta (i.e.,
if a
.I p-file\^
(see
.IR get\^ (1))
exists for the named \s-1SCCS\s+1 file,
the 
.SM SID
specified must
.I not\^
appear in any entry of the
.IR p-file\| ).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I rmdel\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \f3s.\f1)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \f3\-\f1 is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
to be processed;
non-\s-1SCCS\s+1 files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
The basic permissions necessary to remove a delta
are as follows:
(1) if you make a delta you can remove it;
or (2)
if you own the file and directory you can remove a delta.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
rmdel -r1.2 s.test1.c
.PP
would remove the latest delta version (i.e., 1.2) for "s.test1.c".
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'x-file\ \ \ 'u"
x-file
(see
.IR delta\^ (1))
.TP
z-file
(see
.IR delta\^ (1))
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
delta(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1),
sccsfile(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help\^ (1)
for explanations.
.\"	@(#)rmdel.1	5.1 of 11/9/83
