'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SHUTTLE 1D
.SH NAME
shuttle \- depthcued wireframe model of the space shuttle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B /usr/people/demos/shuttle  
.PP
.B /usr/people/mexdemos/shuttle
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Shuttle 
is a PATRAN model of NASA's space shuttle.
The main body (white) is composed of 625 quadrilaterals and 66 triangles.
The doors (red) are drawn with 96 vectors each.
.sp
The shuttle is intensity depth cued.  32 different intensities of red 
and white are used to shade both the standalone and window manager versions
of the model.  
.sp
The mouse buttons 
control rotation about the x, y and z axes, viewer distance, and z-clipping.
Unless otherwise noted, only the x-movement of the mouse is a significant
valuator when holding down a mouse button.  
Any key toggles opening & closing motion of the bay doors on the shuttle.
The space bar is a good key to use to open and close the doors.
.sp
.nf
	Mouse buttons		Function
.sp
	left			rotation about x-axis through mouse x-motion
.br
	middle			rotation about y-axis through mouse x-motion
.br
	right 			rotation about z-axis through mouse x-motion
.br
	left & middle 		translate object through mouse x & y motion 
.br
	left & right 		translate back
.br
     	middle & right		translate forward
.br
    	all			move near z-clipping plane via mouse x-motion
.sp
.fi
The operator also uses some keyboard keys to control the shuttle.
.sp
.sp
.nf
	Keyboard		Function
.sp
	space bar		start or stop movement of doors
.br
	ENTER			turn depthcueing on and off
.br
	ESC			quit the program
.sp
.fi
.sp
.SH "WINDOW MANAGER"
.PP
There is a window manager version of shuttle.
The cargo bay doors do \f3not\f1 stay in motion when
the window is detached.
