'\"macro stdmacro
.TH T3279 1C 
.SH NAME
t3279 \- IBM 3270 terminal emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3t3279 [ \f1\-dgiotvz\f3 ] [ \f1inputfile\f3 ]\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2t3279\f1 program (1) presents a 24-item menu to allow the user to 
(2) emulate a 3278/9 terminal, (3) execute mainframe program remote graphics,
(4) send a binary file from mainframe to IRIS or IRIS to mainframe.
The menu items (5) and (6) are used for Geometry Link hardware diagnosis.
Items (7) and greater are useful for application development.  Item
(19) is useful if the mainframe does not seem to respond to your
keystrokes.  It emulates the ``test'' switch on a 3278 and causes a
``Device End'' Interrupt on the channel.  CTRL-T emulates the ``test
key'' on the 3278 keyboard.
.sp
.B OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d 
log the 3278 screen text in \f2pxlog\f1
.TP
.B \-g
log the RGL annotations in \f2LOGFILE.x\f1
.TP
.B \-i
RGL input is from \f2inputfile\f1, an \f2RDDATA\f1 type file
.TP
.B \-o
create read/write logs \f2RDDATA.x\f1 and \f2WRDATA.x\f1 of the RGL
.TP
.B \-t
use 3278 textport emulation rather than graphport
.TP
.B \-v
use v50 emulation of 3278 textport rather than graphport
.TP
.B \-z
interpret RGL \f2ginit\f1 commands as \f2gbegin\f1
.sp
.PP
.sp
.B APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT
.TP
Item (7) - hextype a file with selected conversion
.TP
.B \-a
ascii
.TP
.B \-e
ebcdic
.TP
.B \-o
ASCII with RGL highlight (10 and 7e)
.TP
Item (8) - select 3278 type of emulation
.TP
.B \-g
graphport 
.TP
.B \-t
textport
.TP
.B \-v
v50 textport keys
.TP
Item (11) - open logging option
.TP
.B \-d
3278 text
.TP
.B \-g
graphic LOGFILE
.TP
.B \-o
RDDATA log
.TP
Item (12) - closes logging option
.TP
.B \-d
close \f2pxlog\f1
.TP
.B \-g
close \f2LOGFILE.x\f1
.TP
.B \-o
close \f2RDATA.x\f1, \f2WRDATA.x\f1, \f2MSGDATA.x\f1
.TP
Item (17) - derive a text file for transfer from the input textfile.
The new file has an uppercase name, and all tabs, linefeeds, and
formfeeds are removed.
.TP
Item (33) - same as 3 (RGL), with keyboard L1 for read data
.TP
Item (34) - same as 4 (UDT), with keyboard L1 for read data
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/pxd   'u
/dev/pxd	Geometry Link device
.SH SEE ALSO
wsiris(1C)
