'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TAR 1
.SH NAME
tar \- tape archiver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tar
key [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
.PP
.I tar
saves and restores multiple files on a single file (usually a magnetic
tape, but it can be any file).
The 
.I key
argument controlls
.IR tar 's
actions.
The
.I key
is a string of characters containing at most one function letter and possibly
one or more function modifiers.  Other arguments to
.I tar
are file or directory names specifying which files to dump or restore.
In all cases, appearance of a directory name refers (recursively) to
the files and  subdirectories of that directory.
These files are dumped to tape in alphabetical order.
.PP
A
.I tar
archive is a stream of 512-byte header structures
which may be followed by file data rounded up to the next
512-byte boundary.
The end of the archive is signaled by two header structures
beginning with null bytes.
.\"	When
.\"	.I tar
.\"	has seen the end of the archive, it will do up to two more
.\"	reads in search of the real end-of-file so that on magnetic
.\"	tapes, the tape will be positioned after the file mark, i.e.
.\"	at the beginning of the next tape file, if any.
.PP
The function portion of the key is specified by one of the following letters:
.TP 8
.B  x
Extract the named files from the tape.  If a named file
matches a directory whose contents had been written onto the tape, this
directory is (recursively) extracted.  The owner, modification time, and mode
are restored (if possible).  If no file argument is given, the entire content
of the tape is extracted.  Note that if multiple entries specifying the same
file are on the tape, the last entry overwrites all earlier entries.
.TP 8
.B  X
For each file to be extracted,
if it is identical to the file in the corresponding
position in the comparison tree, link the existing file
to the new file.
Otherwise, extract the new file as a separate new file.
.B X
is like 
.B x 
but also takes the next argument
as the root of a directory tree for comparison.
.TP 8
.B  t
List the names of the specified files each time they occur on
the tape.  If no file argument is given, list all of the names on the tape.
.TP 8
.B  c
Create a new tape; writing starts at the beginning of the tape
instead of after the last file.  This option assumes you are at
the beginning of the tape.
.TP 8
.B  C
Compare files on tape against existing files.
For each specified file, print a line with a key
character followed by the file name.
.nf
.ta +4m,+2m
	L	linked to an earlier file on the tape
	S	symbolic link
	B	block special file
	C	character special file
	P	named pipe
	?	can't read the disk file, so can't compare
	>	disk file doesn't exist
	=	files compare
	!	files don't compare
.fi
.PP
In addition to the letter
which selects the function desired the following characters may be used:
.TP 8
.B  d
On output, 
.I tar 
normally places information specifying owner and modes
of directories in the archive.  Former versions of 
.IR tar , 
when encountering
this information print error messages of the form:
.br
	``<name>/: cannot create''.
.br
This option suppresses the printing of the directory information.
This option implies the \f3D\f1 option.
.TP 8
.B  D
On output, 
.I tar 
normally places information specifying the owner, modes,
and device numbers
of character and block special files and named pipes (
.I fifos
) in
the archive.
Former versions of 
.IR tar , 
when encountering
this information create an ordinary file of the same name whose contents
is the device number, in binary.
This option suppresses the special file information.
.TP 8
.B  p
This option restores files to their original modes,
ignoring the present
.IR umask (2).
Setuid and sticky information
are also restored to the super-user.
.TP 10
\f3\&0\f1, \f3\&1\f1, \f3\&2\f1, \f3\&3\f1, \f3\&4\f1, \f3\&5\f1, \f3\&6\f1, \f3\&7\f1, \f3\&8\f1, \f3\&9\f1
.br
This modifier selects an alternate drive on which the tape is mounted.
The default is 
.IR /dev/rmt1 .
.TP 10
.B  v
Normally
.I tar
does its work silently.  The
.B v
(verbose) option make
.I tar
print the name of each file it treats preceded by the function
letter.  With the
.B t
function, the verbose option
gives more information about the tape entries than just their names.
.TP 10
.B  w
.I tar
prints the action to be taken followed by file name, then
waits for user confirmation. If a word beginning with `y'
is given, the action is done.  Any other input means do not do it.
.TP 10
.B f
.I tar
uses the next argument as the name of the archive instead of
.IR /dev/rmt1 . 
If the name of the file is `-', tar writes to standard output or
reads from standard input (whichever is appropriate). Thus,
.I tar
can be used as the head or tail of a filter chain.
To move hierarchies, use the command
.sp .5
.ti +.5i
cd fromdir;\0tar cBf \- . | (cd todir; tar xBf \-)

To move hierarchies across systems, use:

.ti +.5i
xx system 'cd fromdir;\0tar cBf \- .' | (cd todir; tar xBf \-)

To backup a hierarchy to a remote tape drive, use:

.ti +.5i
tar cBf \- fromdir | xx system 'dd ibs=10k obs=200k \\
.br
.ti +.5i
of=/dev/rmt1'

To extract from a remote tape, use:

.ti +.5i
xx system 'dd ibs=200k obs=10k if=/dev/rmt1' | tar xBf \-

The
.I xx
command merges standard output with standard error.  If there are any
error messages, they will cause the second
.I tar
to fail. 
Due to an attempt to write a record (the error message) 
whose size is not a multiple of 512, a write
error occurs.
This problem can be avoided 
by using the Bourne shell's capability to redirect just
standard error on the remote system with the command:

.ti +.5i
xx system 'cd fromdir;\0/bin/sh \-c "tar cBf \- . \\
.br
.ti +.5i
2>/dev/console"' | tar xBf \- 
.TP 10
.B b
.I tar
uses the next argument as the blocking factor for tape records. The
default is 400 for the cartridge tape, 1 for standard input
and standard output,
and 20 otherwise.
.\" This option should only be used with raw magnetic
.\" tape archives (See
.\" .B f
.\" above) or the default tape device.
If the tape was written with a blocking factor that
does not exceed the default for that device (20 or 400), 
the block size is determined automatically
when reading a tape.
Use the default blocking factor with a cartridge tape.
Due to the blocking algorithm, 
a tar tape created by writing to the standard output should be read from
standard input. 
.TP 10
.B l
If it cannot resolve all of the links to the
files dumped, 
.I tar 
prints error messages.  If 
.B l 
is not specified, no error messages are printed.
.TP 10
.B m
Do not restore the modification times.  The modification time
will be the time of extraction.
.TP 10
.B e
Force
.I tar
to continue reading past tape errors.
.TP 10
.B L
Force
.I tar
to follow symbolic links as if they were normal files or
directories.
.\"	Normally,
.\"	.I tar
.\"	does not follow symbolic links.
.TP 10
.B B
Force input and output blocking to 20 blocks per record.  This option
allows 
.I tar
to work across a communications channel where the blocking may not
be maintained.
.TP 10
.B R
When extracting from tape, ignore leading slashes on file names,
i.e., extract all files relative to the current directory.
.TP 10
.B U
For each file extracted, unlink existing file (if any).
.TP 10
.B o
Do not \f2chown\f1 (or \f2chgrp\f1) files.
.\" .TP 10
.\" .B V
.\" Variable blocking; the last tape block will not be filled to the blocking
.\" size.
.TP 10
.B a
Reset access times of input files after they have been copied to the archive.
.TP 10
.B q
Turn on debugging and extra error diagnostics.
Supplying this flag multiple times increases debugging level.
.PP
If a file name is preceded by
.BR \-C ,
then
.I tar
will perform a
.IR chdir (2)
to that file name.  This allows multiple directories not
related by a close common parent to be archived using short
relative path names.  For example, to archive files from 
.I /usr/include
and from 
.IR /etc , 
one might use
.PP
.ti +0.5i
tar c \-C /usr  include \-C /  etc
.\"	.PP
.\"	Previous restrictions dealing with
.\"	.IR tar 's
.\"	inability to properly handle blocked archives have been lifted.
.\"	on Berkeley systems thanks to an enhanced magnetic tape driver.
.PP
If a file name of
.B \-
is given on the command line when making an archive then
.I tar
will read its standard input for a list of files to back up,
one per line; the list is terminated by an EOF.
For example, to back up all files that have changed in the last week,
one might use
.PP
.ti +0.5i
find / \- local ! \-type  d \-mtime \-7 \-type f \-print | tar ca \-
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt?
.br
/tmp/tar*
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages about bad key characters and tape read/write errors.
.PP
Error messages if enough memory is not available to hold the link tables.
.SH BUGS
Inserting a second tape could cause a system crash.
.PP
There is no way to ask for the
.IR n \-th
occurrence of a file.
.PP
The system must be rebooted after hard tape errors.
.PP
The
.B u
option can be slow.
.PP
File name length is limited to 100 characters.
.\"	.br
.\"	There is no way to selectively follow symbolic links.
.PP
The data for a file with multiple links is output to
tape with the first link encountered.   Thus, an attempt
to extract a subsequent link by itself will not have the
desired result.
.PP
The cartridge tape drive always reads and writes 
in multiples of 512\-byte records.
Each tape must be created from scratch.  Files may not be appended.
Archives cannot be spread over multiple tapes.
.\" $Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/tar.1,v $
.\" @(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\" $Date: 89/03/27 16:50:40 $
