'\" t
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds T \(->
.TH TBL 1
.SH NAME
tbl \- format tables for nroff or troff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tbl
[
.B \-\s-1TX\s+1
] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tbl\^
is a preprocessor that formats tables for
.I nroff\^
or
.IR troff .
The input files are copied to the standard output,
except for lines between
.SM
.B \&.TS
and
.SM
.B \&.TE
command lines, which are assumed to describe tables
and are re-formatted by
.IR tbl .
(The
.SM
.B \&.TS
and
.SM
.B \&.TE
command lines are not altered by
.IR tbl ).
.PP
.SM
.B \&.TS
is followed by global options.
The available global options are:
.RS .3i
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3doublebox\f1\ \ 'u"
.B center
center the table (default is left-adjust);
.TP
.B expand
make the table as wide as the current line length;
.TP
.B box
enclose the table in a box;
.TP
.B doublebox
enclose the table in a double box;
.TP
.B allbox
enclose each item of the table in a box;
.TP
.BI "tab (" x )
use the character
.I x\^
instead of a tab to separate items in a line of input data.
.RE
.PD
.PP
The global options, if any, are terminated with a semi-colon
.RB ( \|;\| ).
.PP
Next come lines describing the format of each line of the table.
Each such format line describes one line of the actual table, except that the
last format line
(which must end with a period)
describes
.I all\^
remaining lines of the table.
Each column of each line of the table is described by a single key-letter,
optionally followed by specifiers that determine the font and point size
of the corresponding item,
that indicate where vertical bars are to appear between columns,
that determine
column width, inter-column spacing, etc.
The available key-letters are:
.RS .3i
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3=\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.B c
center item within the column;
.TP
.B r
right-adjust item within the column;
.TP
.B l
left-adjust item within the column;
.TP
.B n
numerically adjust item in the column:
units positions of numbers are aligned vertically;
.TP
.B s
span previous item on the left into this column;
.TP
.B a
center longest line in this column and then
left-adjust all other lines in
this column with respect to that centered line;
.TP
.B ^
span down previous entry in this column;
.TP
.B \|_
replace this entry with a horizontal line;
.TP
.B =
replace this entry with a double horizontal line.
.RE
.PD
.PP
The characters
.B B
and
.B I
stand for the bold and italic fonts, respectively;
the character \||\| indicates a vertical line between columns.
.PP
The format lines are followed by lines containing the actual data for the
table, followed finally by
.SM
.BR \&.TE .
Within such data lines, data items are normally separated by tab characters.
.PP
If a data line consists of only
.B _
or
.BR = ,
a single or double line, respectively, is drawn
across the table at that point;
if a
.I "single item\^"
in a data line consists of only
.B _
or
.BR = ,
then that item is replaced by a single or double line.
.PP
Full details of all these and other features of
.I tbl\^
are given in the reference manual cited below.
.PP
The
.SM
.B \-TX
option forces
.I tbl\^
to use only full vertical line motions, making the output
more
suitable for devices that cannot generate partial vertical
line
motions (e.g., line printers).
.PP
If no file names are given as arguments
(or if
.B \-
is specified as the last
argument),
.I tbl\^
reads the standard input,
so it may be used as a filter.
When it is used with
.IR eqn\^ (1)
or
.IR neqn ,
.I tbl\^
should come first to minimize the volume
of data passed through
pipes.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
In the following input, ^I represents a tab
(which should be typed as a genuine tab):
.IP
.nf
\&\f3.\fPTS
center \|box \|;
cB \|s \|s
cI \||\| \|cI \|s
\f3^\f1 \||\| \|c \|c
l \||\| \|n \|n \|.
Household \|Population
\&_
Town\|^I\|Households
\|^I\|Number\|^I\|Size
\&=
Bedminster\|^I\|789\|^I\|3.26
Bernards Twp.\|^I\|3087\|^I\|3.74
Bernardsville\|^I\|2018\|^I\|3.30
Bound Brook\|^I\|3425\|^I\|3.04
Bridgewater\|^I\|7897\|^I\|3.81
Far Hills\|^I\|240\|^I\|3.19
\&.TE
.fi
.PP
yields:
.PP
.TS
center box ;
cB s s
cI | cI s
^ | c c
l | n n .
Household Population
_
Town	Households
	Number	Size
=
Bedminster	789	3.26
Bernards Twp.	3087	3.74
Bernardsville	2018	3.30
Bound Brook	3425	3.04
Bridgewater	7897	3.81
Far Hills	240	3.19
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
cw(1), eqn(1), mm(1), mmt(1), nroff(1), troff(1), mm(5), mv(5)
.br
.SM
.I TBL\*S\-A Program to Format Tables\c 
\&.
.SH BUGS
See
.SM
.I BUGS\^
under
.IR nroff\^ (1).
.\"	@(#)tbl.1	5.1 of 11/15/83
