'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TSET 1
.SH NAME
tset \- terminal dependent initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tset
[
options
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tset\^
causes terminal dependent processing such as setting
erase and kill characters, setting or resetting delays,
and the like.
It first determines the
.I type\^
of terminal involved, names for which are specified by the
.I /etc/termcap
data base, and then
does necessary initializations and mode settings.
In the case where no argument types are specified,
.I tset\^
simply reads the terminal type out of the environment variable 
.SM TERM
and re-initializes the terminal.  The rest of this manual concerns
itself with type initialization, done typically once at login, and options
used at initialization time to determine the terminal type and set up
terminal modes.
.PP
When used in a startup script
"\&.profile"
(for
.IR sh\^ (1)
users) or
"\&.login"
(for
.IR csh\^ (1)
users), it is desirable to give information about the types of terminal
usually used, for terminals which are connected to the computer through
a modem.
These ports are initially identified as being
.I dialup\^
or
.I plugboard\^
or
.IR arpanet\^ ,
etc.
To specify
what terminal type is usually used on these ports,
.B \-m
is followed by the appropriate port type identifier,
an optional baud-rate specification,
and the terminal type to be used if the mapping conditions are satisfied.
If more than one mapping is specified, the first applicable mapping prevails.
A missing type identifier matches all identifiers.
.PP
Baud rates are specified as with
.IR stty\^ (1),
and are compared with the
speed of the diagnostic output (which is almost always the control terminal).
The baud rate test may be any combination of:
.BR > ,
.BR = ,
.BR < ,
\f3@\f1,
and
.BR \^! ;
\f3@\f1
is a synonym for
.B =
and
.B !
inverts the sense of the test.  To avoid problems with metacharacters, it
is best to place the entire argument to
.B \-m
within '\^' characters; users of
.I csh\^
must also put a "\e" before any "!" used here.
.PP
Thus
.IP
tset \-m 'dialup\s-2>\s0300:adm3a' \-m dialup:dw2
.LP
causes the terminal type to be set to an
.I adm3a\^
if the port in use is a dialup at a speed greater than 300 baud;
to a 
.I dw2\^
if the port is (otherwise) a dialup (i.e., at 300 baud or less).
If the
.I type\^
above begins with a question mark,
the user is asked if the user really wants that type.
A null response means to use that type;
otherwise, another type can be entered which will be used instead.
For other ports the port type will be taken from the
.B /etc/ttytype
file or a final, default
.I type\^
option may be given on the command line not preceded by a
.BR \-m .
A ttytype may be preceded with a question mark in
.B /etc/ttytype
for prompting (this is an enhancement over standard \f2tset\fP).
.PP
It is often desirable to return the terminal type, as specified by the
.B \-m
options, and information about the terminal
to a shell's environment.  This can be done using the
.B \-s
option; using the Bourne shell,
.IR sh\^ :
.RS
.PP
eval `tset \-s \f2options\f1`
.RE
.PP
or using the C shell,
.IR csh\^ :
.RS
.PP
set noglob; eval `tset \-s \f2options\f1`\^; unset noglob
.RE
.PP
These commands cause
.I tset\^
to generate as output a sequence of shell commands that are executed
by the current shell that place the variables
.SM TERM
and 
.SM TERMCAP
in the environment (see
.IR environ\^ (5)).
.PP
Once the terminal type is known,
.I tset\^
engages in terminal mode setting.
This normally involves sending an initialization sequence to the
terminal and setting the single character erase (and optionally
the line-kill (full line erase)) characters.
.PP
On terminals that can backspace but not overstrike
(such as a \s-2CRT\s0),
and when the erase character is the default erase character
(``#'' on standard systems),
the erase character is changed to a ^H
(backspace).
.PP
Other options are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-e\f1[\f2c\f1]\ \ \ 'u"
.BR \-e [\f2c\fP]
set the erase character to be the named character
.I c\^
on all terminals,
the default being the backspace character on the terminal, usually ^H.
The syntax of
.I c
is the same as that used to specify characters to
.IR stty (1).
.TP
.BR \-k [\f2c\fP]
is similar to
.B \-e
but for the line kill character rather than the erase character;
.I c\^
defaults to ^X (for purely historical reasons); ^U is the preferred setting.
No kill processing is done if
.B \-k
is not specified.
.TP
.B \-I
suppresses outputting terminal initialization strings.
.TP
.B \-Q
suppresses printing the
``Erase set to'' and ``Kill set to'' messages.
.TP
.B \-S
Outputs just the strings to be assigned to
.SM TERM
and 
.SM TERMCAP
rather than commands for a shell.
.SH EXAMPLE
A typical use of
.I tset\^
in a
.I csh\^
"\&.login" file
would be:
.IP
set noglob; eval `tset \-e'^?' \-s \-d\\\^?h19`\^; unset noglob 
.PP
This sequence sets the environment variables 
.SM TERM
and
.SM TERMCAP
for the user's
current terminal according to the file 
.IR /etc/ttytype ,
and the erase character to 
.SM DEL.
If the
terminal line is a dialup line, the user is prompted for
the proper terminal type, the default being
.IR h19 .
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The \f3\-s \f1option uses 
.SM SHELL 
to determine the syntax of the
output.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/etc/ttytype\ \ \ \ \ 'u
/etc/ttytype	port id to terminal type map database
.br
/etc/termcap	terminal capability database
.DT
.SH SEE\ ALSO
csh(1), reset(1), sh(1), stty(1), 
ttytype(4), termcap(4),
environ(5). 
.SH BUGS
Should be merged with
.IR stty .
.PP
It could well be argued that the shell should be responsible for insuring
that the terminal remains in a sane state; this would eliminate the
need for this program.
.SH NOTES
For compatibility with earlier versions of
.IR tset ,
a number of flags are accepted whose use is discouraged:
.TP "\w'\f3\-d\f2 type\f1\ \ \ 'u"
\f3\-d\f2 type\f1
equivalent to
\f3\-m dialup:\f2type\f1
.TP
\f3\-p\f2 type\f1
equivalent to
\f3\-m plugboard:\f2type\f1
.TP
\f3\-a\f2 type\f1
equivalent to
\f3\-m arpanet:\f2type\f1
.TP
\f3\-E\f2c\f1
Sets the erase character to
.I c\^
only if the terminal can backspace.
.TP
\f3\-\f1
prints the terminal type on the standard output
.TP
\f3\-r\f1
prints the terminal type on the diagnostic output.
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Allman
.\"	@(#)tset.1	5.2 of 3/29/84
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/tset.1,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:50:57 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	tset.1,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:50:57  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.6  86/09/05  16:29:30  oz
.\" *** empty log message ***
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  86/04/16  10:41:45  celia
.\" fixed ref.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  86/04/15  08:29:18  celia
.\" fixed ref.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  86/04/11  09:17:20  celia
.\" fixed ref.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  85/08/06  16:08:01  robinf
.\" Cosmetic changes
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.1  85/06/21  17:05:09  robinf
.\" Update for GL2-2.3
.\" 
