'\"macro stdmacro
.TH UL 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ul \- do underlining
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ul
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-t
.I terminal
]
[
.I name
\&...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ul
reads the named files (or standard input if none are given)
and translates occurrences of underscores to the sequence
which indicates underlining for the terminal in use, as specified
by the environment variable
TERM.
The
.B \-t
option overrides the terminal kind specified in the environment.
The file
.I /etc/termcap
is read to determine the appropriate sequences for underlining.
If the terminal is incapable of underlining, but is capable of
a standout mode then that is used instead.
If the terminal can overstrike,
or handles underlining automatically,
.I ul
degenerates to
.IR cat (1).
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.PP
The
.B \-i
option causes
.I ul
to indicate underlining onto by a separate line containing appropriate
dashes `\-'; this is useful when you want to look at the underlining
which is present in an
.I nroff
output stream on a crt-terminal.
.PP
.I ul
also handles bold printing, alternate character sets, etc. when the
sequences are defined in the terminal's
.I /etc/termcap
entry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
man(1), nroff(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton wrote
.IR ul .
The
.B \-i
option was originally a option of the editor
.IR ex (1),
then an
.I iul
command.
.SH BUGS
.I Nroff
usually outputs a series of backspaces and underlines intermixed
with the text to indicate underlining.  No attempt is made to optimize
the backward motion.
.\" $Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/ul.1,v $
.\" @(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\" $Date: 89/03/27 16:51:06 $
