'\"macro stdmacro
.TH UNIQ 1 
.SH NAME
uniq \- report repeated lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uniq
[
.B \-udc
[
.BR + n
] [
.BR \- n
]
] [ input [ output ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uniq\^
reads the input
file comparing adjacent lines.
In the normal case, the second and succeeding copies
of repeated lines are
removed; the remainder is written on the output file.
.I Input\^
and 
.I output\^
should always be different.
Note that repeated lines must be adjacent
in order to be found;
see
.IR sort\^ (1).
If the
.B \-u
flag is used,
just the lines that are not repeated
in the original file are output.
The
.B \-d
option specifies that
one copy of just the repeated lines is to
be written.
The normal mode output is the union of the
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
mode outputs.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option supersedes
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
and generates
an output report in default style
but with each line preceded by a count of the
number of times it occurred.
.PP
The
.I n\^
arguments specify skipping an initial portion of each line
in the comparison:
.TP "\w'\f3\-\f2n\f1\ \ \ 'u"
.BI \- n\^
The first
.I n\^ 
fields
together with any blanks before each are ignored.
A field is defined as a string of non-space, non-tab characters
separated by tabs and spaces from its neighbors.
.TP
.BI + n\^
The first
.I n\^ 
characters are ignored.
Fields are skipped before characters.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
uniq file1
.PP
prints contents of "file1" with adjacent identical lines
removed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
comm(1), sort(1).
.\"	@(#)uniq.1	5.1 of 11/14/83
