'\"macro stdmacro
.TH UUSTAT 1C
.SH NAME
uustat \- uucp status inquiry and job control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uustat
[ options ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uustat\^
will display the status of, or cancel, previously specified
.I uucp\^
commands, or provide general status on
.I uucp\^
connections to other systems.
The following
.I options\^
are recognized:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3\-M\|\f2mch\f1\^\ \ 'u"
.BI \-j\| jobn\^
Report the status of the
.I uucp\^
request
.IR jobn .
If
.B all
is used for
.IR jobn ,
the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests is reported.
If
.I jobn\^
is omitted, the status of the current user's
.I uucp\^
requests is reported.
.TP
.BI \-k\| jobn\^
Kill the
.I uucp\^
request whose job number is
.IR jobn .
The killed
.I uucp\^
request must belong to the person
issuing the
.I uustat\^
command
unless one is the super-user.
.TP 
.BI \-r\| jobn\^
Rejuvenate
.I jobn\^.
That is
.I jobn\^
is touched so that 
its modification time is set to the current time.
This prevents
.I uuclean\^
from deleting the job until the jobs modification
time reaches the limit imposed by 
.IR uuclean .
.TP
.BI \-c\| hour\^
Remove the status entries which are older than
.I hour\^
hours.
This administrative option can only be initiated by the user
.B uucp
or the super-user.
.TP
.BI \-u\| user\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by
.IR user .
.TP
.BI \-s\| sys\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests which communicate with remote system
.IR sys .
.TP
.BI \-o\| hour\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests which are older than
.I hour\^
hours.
.TP
.BI \-y\| hour\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests which are younger than
.I hour\^
hours.
.TP
.BI \-m\| mch\^
Report the status of accessibility of machine
.IR mch .
If
.I mch\^
is specified as
.BR all ,
then the status of all machines known to the
local
.I uucp\^
are provided.
.TP
.BI \-M\| mch\^
This is the same as the 
.I \-m
option except that two times are printed.
The time that the last status was obtained and the time that
the last successful transfer to that
system occurred.
.TP
.B \-O\^
Report the
.I uucp\^
status using the octal status codes listed below.
If this option is not specified,
the verbose description is printed with each
.I uucp\^
request.
.TP
.B \-q\^
List the number of jobs and other control files queued for each machine
and the time of the oldest and youngest file queued for
each machine.
If a lock file exists for that system, its date of creation is listed.
.PD
.PP
When no options are given,
.I uustat\^
outputs the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by the current user.
Note that only one of the options
.BR \-j ,
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-k ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-r ,
can be used with the rest of the other options.
.PP
For example, the command:
.IP
uustat \|\-uhdc \|\-smhtsa \|\-y72
.PP
will print the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests that were issued by user
.I hdc\^
to communicate with system
.I mhtsa\^
within the last 72 hours.
The meanings of the job request status are:
.IP "" 5
job-number \|user \|remote-system \|command-time \|status-time \|status
.PP
where the
.I status\^
may be either an octal number or a verbose
description.
The octal code corresponds to the following description:
.PP
.RS .3i
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\s-1OCTAL\s+1\^\ \ \ 'u"
.SM OCTAL
.SM STATUS
.TP
000001
the copy failed, but the reason cannot be determined
.TP
000002
permission to access local file is denied
.TP
000004
permission to access remote file is denied
.TP
000010
bad
.I uucp\^
command is generated
.TP
000020
remote system cannot create temporary file
.TP
000040
cannot copy to remote directory
.TP
000100
cannot copy to local directory
.TP
000200
local system cannot create temporary file
.TP
000400
cannot execute
.I uucp\^
.TP 
001000
copy (partially) succeeded
.TP
002000
copy finished, job deleted
.TP
004000
job is queued
.TP
010000
job killed (incomplete)
.TP
020000
job killed (complete)
.PD
.RE
.PP
The meanings of the machine accessibility status are:
.IP "" 5
system-name \|time \|status
.PP
where \f2time\f1 is the latest status time and
.I status\^
is a self-explanatory description of the machine status.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/lib/uucp/R_stat\ \ \ \ 'u"
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/L_stat
system status file
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/R_stat
request status file
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C).
.\"	@(#)uustat.1c	5.1 of 11/14/83
