'\"macro stdmacro
.ds P UNIX
.TH UUTO 1C
.SH NAME
uuto, uupick \- public unix system-to-unix system file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuto
[ options ] source-files destination
.br
.B uupick
[
.B \-s
system ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuto\^
sends
.I source-files\^
to
.IR destination .
.I Uuto\^
uses the
.IR uucp\^ (1C)
facility to send files,
while it allows the local system to control the file access.
A source-file name is a path name on your machine.
Destination has the form:
.IP "" 5
system\f3!\fP\f2user\fP
.PP
where
.I system\^
is taken from a list of system names
that
.I uucp\^
knows about (see
.IR uuname ).
.I User\^
is the login name
of someone on the specified system.
.PP
Two \f2options\^\fP are available:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1\ \ 'u"
.B \-p
Copy the source file into the spool directory before transmission.
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail to the sender when the copy is complete.
.PD
.PP
The files (or sub-trees if directories are specified) are sent to
.SM PUBDIR
on
.IR system ,
where
.SM PUBDIR
is a public directory defined in the
.I uucp\^
source.
Specifically the files are sent to
.IP "" 5
\s-1PUBDIR\s+1/receive/\f2user\fP/\f2mysystem\f1/files.
.PP
The destined recipient is notified by
.IR mail\^ (1)
of the arrival of files.
.PP
.I Uupick\^
accepts or rejects the files transmitted to the user.
Specifically,
.I uupick\^
searches
.SM PUBDIR
for files destined for the user.
For each entry (file or directory) found,
the following message is printed on the standard output:
.IP
\f3from \f2system\^\f3:\f1 [\^file \f2file-name\^\f1] [dir \f2dirname\^\f1] \f3?\f1
.PP
.I Uupick\^
then reads a line from the standard input to determine the
disposition of the file:
.TP "\w'\s-1EOT\s+1\ (control-d)\^\ \ 'u"
<new-line>
Go on to next entry.
.TP
.B d
Delete the entry.
.TP
\f3m\fP [ \f2dir\^\fP ]
Move the entry to named directory
.I dir\^
(current directory is default).
.TP
\f3a\fP [ \f2dir\^\fP ]
Same as \f3m\f1 except moving all the files sent from
.IR system .
.TP
.B p
Print the content of the file.
.TP
.B q
Stop.
.TP
\s-1EOT\s0 (control-d)
Same as
.BR q .
.TP
.BI ! command\^
Escape to the shell to do
.IR command .
.TP
.B *
Print a command summary.
.PP
.I Uupick\^
invoked with the
.BI \-s system\^
option will only search
the
.SM PUBDIR
for files sent from
.IR system .
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
uuto -p file1 file2 file3 ucbvax!Joe
.PP
would send the three files to user Joe on ucbvax
.IP
uupick [executed by Joe]
.PP
would tell him what has arrived and from where.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\s-1PUBDIR\s+1/usr/spool/uucppublic\ \ \ \ 'u
\s-1PUBDIR\s+1/usr/spool/uucppublic	public directory
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), uucp(1C), uustat(1C), uux(1C).
.\"	@(#)uuto.1c	5.1 of 11/14/83
.\" $Source: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/uuto.1c,v $
.\" @(#)$Revision: 1.1 $
.\" $Date: 89/03/27 16:51:22 $
