'\"macro stdmacro
.ds P UNIX
.TH WHO 1
.SH NAME
who \- who is on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B who
.RB [\| \-uTlpdbrtas \|]
[ file ]
.PP
.B "who am i"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Who
can list the user's name, terminal line, login time,
elapsed time since activity occurred on the line,
and the process-\s-1ID\s+1 of the command interpreter (shell)
for each current \s-1UNIX\s+1 System user.
It
examines the
.B /etc/utmp
file to obtain its information.
If \f2file\^\fP is given, that file is examined.
Usually, \f2file\^\fP will be
.BR /etc/wtmp ,
which contains a history of all the logins since the file
was last created.
.PP
.I Who\^
with the
.B am i
option identifies the invoking user.
.PP
Except for the default
.B \-s
option, the general format for output entries is:
.PP
.RS
name \|[\^state\^] \|line \|time \|activity \|pid \|[\^comment\^] \|[\^exit\^]
.RE
.PP
With options,
.I who\^
can list
logins, logoffs, reboots, and changes to the system clock, as well 
as other
processes spawned by the \f2init\^\fP process.
These options are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-T\f1\^\ \ 'u"
.B \-u
This option lists information about those users who are currently
logged in.
The
.I name\^
is the user's login name.
The
.I line\^
is the name of the line as found in the directory
.BR /dev .
The
.I time\^
is the time that the user logged in.
The
.I activity\^
is the number of hours and minutes since activity last occurred on
that particular line.
A
dot
.RB ( \^.\^ )
indicates that the terminal has seen activity in the last minute
and is therefore "current".
If more than twenty-four hours have elapsed or
the line has not been used since boot time,
the entry is marked
.RB old .
This field is useful when trying to determine
whether a person is working at the terminal or not.
The
.I pid\^
is the process-\s-1ID\s+1 of the user's shell.
The
.I comment\^
is the comment field associated with this line as found in
.B /etc/inittab
(see
.IR inittab\^ (4)).
This can contain information about where the terminal is located,
the telephone number of the dataset, type of terminal if hard-wired, etc.
.TP
.B \-T
This option causes the
.I state\^
of the terminal line to be printed.
The
.I state\^
describes whether someone else can write to that terminal.
A
.B +
appears if the terminal
is writable by anyone;
a
.B \-
appears
if it is not.
.B Root
can write to all lines having a
.B +
or a
.B \-
in the
.I state\^
field.
If a bad line is encountered, a
.B ?
is printed.
.TP
.B \-l
This option lists only those lines on which the system is waiting
for someone to login.
The
.I name\^
field is
.B \s-1LOGIN\s+1
in such cases.
Other fields are the same as for user entries except that the
.I state\^
field doesn't exist.
.TP
.B \-p
This option lists any other process which is currently active and has
been previously spawned by
.IR init .
The
.I name\^
field is
the name of the program executed by
.I init\^
as found in
.BR /etc/inittab .
The
.IR state ,
.IR line ,
and
.I activity\^
fields have no meaning.
The
.I comment\^
field shows
the
.I id\^
field of the line from
.B /etc/inittab
that spawned this process.
See
.IR inittab\^ (4).
.TP
.B \-d
This option displays all processes
that have expired and not been respawned by 
.IR init .
The
.I exit\^
field appears for dead processes and contains the termination and exit
values (as returned by
.IR wait\^ (2)),
of
the dead process.
This can be useful in determining why a process
terminated.
.TP
.B \-b
This option indicates the time and date of the last reboot.
.TP
.B \-r
This option indicates the current
.I run-level\^
of the
.I init\^
process.
Following the run-level and date information are three fields which indicate
the current state, the number of times that state was previously entered,
and the previous state.
.TP
.B \-t
This option indicates the last
change to the system clock (via the
.IR date\^ (1)
command) by
.BR root .
See
.IR su\^ (1).
.TP
.B \-a
This option processes
.B /etc/utmp
or the named
.I file\^
with all options turned on.
.TP
.B \-s
This option is the default and lists only the
.IR name ,
.I line\^
and
.I time\^
fields.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
who am i
.PP
reports the name under which you are currently logged
in.  This could be a name other than the original name
under which you logged in, if the
.I su\^
command has been used.
.SH FILES
/etc/utmp
.br
/etc/wtmp
.br
/etc/inittab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
date(1),
login(1),
mesg(1),
su(1),
wait(2),
inittab(4),
utmp(4),
init(1M)
.\"	@(#)who.1	5.1 of 11/14/83
