'\"macro stdmacro
.TH XCP 1C
.SH NAME
xcp \- remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3xcp\f1 [ \f3\-Lrv\f1 ] file1 file2
.br
\f3xcp\f1 [ \f3\-Lrv\f1 ] file ... directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2xcp\f1 copies files between machines.
\f2File1\f1 is copied to \f2file2\f1 or \f2file\f1 is copied to 
\f2directory/file\f1.
.PP
Each \f2file\f1 or \f2directory\f1
argument is either a remote file name of the
form \f2rhost:path\f1,
or a local file name.
( If the file name contains a :, put a ./ before the
file name to specify a file in the current directory.  
For example, to send the file x:, use the command:  
xcp ./x: remote:x:)
.PP
\f2rhost\f1 may take the form \f2rhost.rname\f1
to use \f2rname\f1 rather
than the current login name on the remote host.
\f2xcp\f1 does not prompt for passwords;
your current local login name 
must allow remote command execution
via \f2xx\f1(1C).
If \f2path\f1 is not a full path name,
it is interpreted relative to
your login directory on \f2rhost\f1.
A \f2path\f1 on a remote host may be quoted (using \e, ", or ')
so that the metacharacters are interpreted remotely.
\f2xcp\f1 handles third party copies,
where neither source nor target files
are on the current machine.
.PP
If the argument \f3\-r\f1
is specified and any of the source files are directories,
\f2xcp\f1 copies each subtree rooted at that name;
in this case the destination must be a directory.
.PP
The \f3\-v\f1 option causes the file name to be printed as each file is copied.
.PP
The 
\f3\-L\f1 option causes symbolic links to be followed.
Normally symbolic links are transferred as such.
.SH FILES
/bin/xx
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1), xx(1C)
.SH BUGS
\f2xcp\fP doesn't detect all cases where the target of a copy might
be a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.
.PP
\f2xcp\fP is confused by any output generated by commands in a
\f2\&.login\f1, \f2\&.profile\f1, or \f2\&.cshrc\f1 file on the remote host.
.PP
When copying with \f3\-r\f1,
links within a subtree are not preserved.
.PP
Long file names (>950 bytes) may cause trouble.
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/u_man/man1/RCS/xcp.1c,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:51:45 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	xcp.1c,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:51:45  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.11  86/10/24  16:58:09  rmr
.\" *** empty log message ***
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.10  86/04/16  12:17:34  celia
.\" xlogin.1c ref changed to xx.1c
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.9  86/04/16  08:56:11  celia
.\" fixed ref.
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.8  86/02/18  13:59:32  celia
.\" cosmetic changes
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.7  85/11/06  09:56:00  lori
.\" removed ref. to xlogin.1c
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.6  85/09/25  18:52:57  robinf
.\" Cosmetic changes
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.5  85/05/15  15:10:21  robinf
.\" Updates for GL2-W2.3 and GL1-W2.2
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.4  85/05/09  14:58:29  robinf
.\" Resolve SCR 122
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  85/05/03  19:19:41  robinf
.\" Updates from 2000 Series Workstation Guide, Version 1.0
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.0  85/05/03  12:58:26  robinf
.\" Initial Revision
.\" Revision 1.2  85/02/25  12:51:30  bob
.\" Incorporated -v documented on jesse version.
.\" 
