'\"macro stdmacro
.TH XX 1C
.SH NAME
xx, xlogin \- remote execution via XNS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.de dj
.br
.B \\$1
[
.B \-xt
]
..
.dj xx
host
.dj xx
host command [ args ... ]
.dj xlogin
host
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I "xlogin host"
runs and connects to a login process on the specified
.IR host .
.I "xx host"
runs and connects to a shell process on the specified
.IR host .
.I "xx host command ..."
runs and connects to
.I command
on the specified
.IR host .
Connections are implemented
using Silicon Graphics' enhanced XNS networking software.
.I Host
is the Silicon Graphics bounce protocol system name
of the intended remote system.
.PP
Standard input
is copied to the standard input of the remote process.
Standard output
is copied from
the standard output and standard error output of the remote process.
This continues until the remote process closes the connection.
.PP
The forms
.I "xlogin host"
and
.I "xx host"
put the local terminal in raw mode;
consequently
echoing,
interrupt characters, flow control, etc.,
are handled by the remote
.IR host .
.PP
The forms
.I "xx host"
and
.I "xx host command ..."
try to connect to an account on the remote
.IR host ,
with the same name as on the local system.
If this remote account does not exist,
they try to use the remote
.I guest
account.
The remote process is started with
the shell and home directory taken from
the remote account being used.
There is no provision for specifying a different account name or a
password(!).
.PP
Note that in the form
.I "xx host command ..."
any unquoted shell metacharacters in
.IR command ,
are expanded on the local system.
.PP
The environment that xx sets up on the remote machine
may be determined by entering the command sequence "xx \f2host\f1
printenv" on the local system.
.PP
FLAGS
.IP \-x
Causes flow control to be handled on the local terminal.
By default it is handled by the remote
.IR host
(see the note on the ~x escape command, below).
.IP \-t
disables escape commands (see below).
.PP
ESCAPE COMMANDS
.br
The forms
.I "xlogin host"
and
.I "xx host"
(but not
.IR "xx host command ..." )
interpret any
input line beginning with a ~ character
as an escape command.
Escape commands are handled locally
and are not copied to the remote
IR host .
.IP ~.
force the session to end.
This may result in the remote process
receiving a HANGUP signal.
.IP ~~
send a single ~ character to the remote
.IR host .
.IP ~!
start up a local shell (taken from the
.I SHELL
environment variable if any;
else
.IR sh ).
Standard input is diverted to this
shell until it exits.
.IP ~x
toggle the locus of flow control
(ie, local or remote).
The delay times for remote flow control
are sometimes unacceptably long.
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp
.nf
.in +0.5i
xx bertha cat info > localfile
.in
.fi
.sp
copies the (remote) file
.I info
from host
.I bertha
to the local file
.IR localfile .
.sp
.nf
.in +0.5i
xx bertha cat info '>' remotefile
.in
.fi
.sp
copies the (remote) file
.I info
from host
.I bertha
to another remote file,
.IR remotefile .
.SH SEE ALSO
hostname(1), xcp(1C), xnsd(1M)
.SH BUGS
The form
.I "xx host command ..."
cannot properly run an interactive
.IR command .
.PP
Remote standard error output should be copied to
its local analogue,
not standard output.
.PP
Exit status from the remote command is not returned.
