'\"macro stdmacro
.hw textangle
.TH GPS 4
.SH NAME
gps \- graphical primitive string, format of graphical files
.SH DESCRIPTION
\s-1GPS\s+1 is a format used to store graphical data.
Several routines have been developed to edit and display \s-1GPS\s+1
files on various devices.  Also,
higher level graphics programs such as \f2plot\f1 
and \f2vtoc\f1
produce \s-1GPS\s+1 format output files.
.PP
A \s-1GPS\s+1 is composed of five types of graphical data 
or primitives.
.SS \f3\s-1GPS PRIMITIVES\s+1\fP
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3lines\f
The \f2lines\f1 primitive has a variable
number of points from which zero or more connected line segments are produced.
The first point given produces a \f2move\f1 to that
location.
(A \f2move\f1 is
a relocation of the graphic cursor without drawing.)
Successive points produce line segments from
the previous point.
Parameters are available to
set \f2color\f1, \f2weight\f1, and \f2style\f1 (see below).
.s1
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3arc\f1
The
\f2arc\f1 primitive has a variable number of points 
to which a curve is fit.
The first point
produces a \f2move\f1 to that point.  If only
two points are included a line connecting the points will result, if three points a circular
arc through the points is drawn, 
and if more than three, lines connect the points.
(In the future, a spline will be fit to the points if they number greater than three.)
Parameters are available to set \f2color, weight,\f1 and \f2style\f1.
.s1
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3text\f1
The
\f2text\f1 primitive draws characters.  It requires a single 
point which locates the center of the first character to be drawn.
Parameters are \f2color\f1, \f2font\f1, \f2textsize\f1, and
\f2textangle\f1.
.s1
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3hardware\f1
The \f2hardware\f1 primitive draws hardware
characters or gives control commands to a hardware device.  A single 
point locates the beginning location of the 
\f2hardware\f1 string.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3comment\f1
A \f2comment\f1 is
an integer string that is included in a \s-1GPS\s+1 file but
causes nothing to be displayed.  All \s-1GPS\s+1 files begin with
a comment of zero length.
.SS \f3\s-1GPS PARAMETERS\s+1\fP
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3color\f1
\f2Color\f1 is an integer value set for
\f2arc, lines,\f1 and \f2text\f1 primitives.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3weight\f1
\f2Weight\f1 is an integer value set for
\f2arc\f1 and \f2lines\f1 primitives to indicate line thickness.
The value \f30\f1 is  narrow weight, \f31\f1 is bold, and \f32\f1
is medium weight.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3style\f1
\f2Style\f1 is an integer value set for
\f2lines\f1 and \f2arc\f1 primitives to give one of the five
different line styles that can be drawn on Tektronix 4010 series storage tubes.
They are:
.RS
\f30\f1     solid
.br
\f31\f1     dotted
.br
\f32\f1     dot dashed
.br
\f33\f1     dashed
.br
\f34\f1     long dashed
.RE
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3font\f1
An integer value set for
\f2text\f1 primitives to designate the text font to be used in
drawing a character string.  (Currently \f2font\f1
is expressed as a four-bit \f2weight\f1 value
followed by a four-bit \f2style\f1 value.)
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3textsize\f1
\f2Textsize\f1 is an integer value used in 
\f2text\f1 primitives to express the size of the characters to
be drawn.  \f2Textsize\f1 represents the height of characters
in absolute \f2universe-units\f1
and is stored at one-fifth this value in the size-orientation (\f2so\f1) word (see below).
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3textangle\f1
\f2Textangle\f1 is a signed integer value used in 
\f2text\f1 primitives to express rotation of the character string
around the beginning point.  \f2Textangle\f1 is expressed in degrees from the positive x-axis and can be
a positive or negative value.
It is stored in the size-orientation (\f2so\f1) word as a value 256/360 of its absolute value.
.SS \f3\s-1ORGANIZATION\s+1\fP
.PP
\s-1GPS\s+1 primitives are organized internally as follows:
.PP
.ta \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
.nf
\f3lines\f2	cw  points  sw
\f3arc\f2	cw  points  sw
\f3text\f2	cw  point  sw  so  [string\|]
\f3hardware\f2	cw  point  [string\|]
\f3comment\f2	cw  [string\|\f1]
.fi
.DT
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3cw\f1
\f2Cw\f1 is the control word
and begins all primitives.  It consists of four bits that contain
a primitive-type code and twelve bits that contain the
word-count for that primitive.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3point\f1(\f3s\f1)
\f2Point\f1(\f2s\f1\|)\f1 is one or more
pairs of integer coordinates.
\f2Text\f1 and \f2hardware\f1 primitives only 
require a single \f2point\f1.  \f2Point\f1(\f2s\f1\|) are 
values within a Cartesian plane or \f2universe\f1
having 64K (\-32K to +32K) points on each axis.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3sw\f1
\f2Sw\f1 is the style-word and is used in
\f2lines, arc,\f1 and \f2text\f1 primitives.  The first
eight bits contain \f2color\f1 information.  In \f2arc\f1 and
\f2lines\f1 the last eight bits are divided as
four bits \f2weight\f1 and four bits \f2style\f1.  In the
\f2text\f1 primitive the last eight bits of \f2sw\f1 contain the \f2font\f1.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3so\f1
\f2So\f1 is the size-orientation word used in
\f2text\f1 primitives.  The first eight bits contain text size
and the remaining eight bits contain text rotation.
.TP \w'\f3hardware\f1\ \ \ 'u
\f3string\f1
\f2String\f1 is a null-terminated character string.
If the string does not end on a word boundary an
additional null is added to the \s-1GPS\s+1 file to insure
word-boundary alignment.
.\"	@(#)gps.4	5.1 of 10/15/83
