.TH LDFCN 4
.SH NAME
ldfcn \- common object file access routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h>
.fi
\}
.el \{\
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h"
\}
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The common object file access routines
are a collection of functions 
for reading an object file
that is in \s-1VAX\s+1 or 3B20S (common) object file form.
Although the calling program must know the detailed structure of the
parts of the object file that it processes,
the routines effectively insulate the calling program
from knowledge of the overall structure of the object file.
.PP
The interface between the calling program and the object file access
routines is based on
the defined type
.BR \s-1LDFILE\s+1 ,
defined as
.BR "struct ldfile" ,
declared in the header file
.BR ldfcn.h .
The primary purpose of this structure is to provide uniform access to
both simple object files and to object files that are members of an
archive file.
.PP
The function
.IR ldopen (3X)
allocates and initializes the
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1
structure and returns a pointer 
to the structure
to the calling program.
The fields of the
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1
structure may be accessed individually through
macros defined in
.B ldfcn.h
and contain the following information:
.TP 15
\s-1LDFILE\s+1	\(**ldptr;
.TP 15
\s-1TYPE\s+1(ldptr)
The file magic number, used to distinguish between archive members and simple
object files.
.TP 15
\s-1OPTR\s+1(ldptr)
The file pointer returned by \f2fopen\fP and used
by the standard input/output functions.
.TP 15
\s-1OFFSET\s+1(ldptr)
The file address of the beginning of the object file;
the offset is non-zero if the object file is a member of an archive file.
.TP 15
\s-1HEADER\s+1(ldptr)
The file header structure of the object file.
.PP
The object file access functions themselves may be divided into four
categories:
.RS
.PP
(1)  functions that open or close an object file
.PP
.RS
.IR ldopen (3X)
and
.I ldaopen
.RS
open a common object file
.RE
.IR ldclose (3X)
and
.I ldaclose
.RS
close a common object file
.RE
.RE
.PP
(2)  functions that read header or symbol table information
.PP
.RS
.IR ldahread (3X)
.RS
read the archive header of a member of an archive file
.RE
.IR ldfhread (3X)
.RS
read the file header of a common object file
.RE
.IR ldshread (3X)
and
.I ldnshread
.RS
read a section header of a common object file
.RE
.IR ldtbread (3X)
.RS
read a symbol table entry of a common object file
.RE
.RE
.PP
(3)  functions that position an object file at (seek to)
the start of the section, relocation,
or line number information for a particular section.
.PP
.RS
.IR ldohseek (3X)
.RS
seek to the optional file header of a common object file
.RE
.IR ldsseek (3X)
and
.I ldnsseek
.RS
seek to a section of a common object file
.RE
.IR ldrseek (3X)
and
.I ldnrseek
.RS
seek to the relocation information for a section of a common
object file
.RE
.IR ldlseek (3X)
and
.I ldnlseek
.RS
seek to the line number information for a section of a common object file
.RE
.IR ldtbseek (3X)
.RS
seek to the symbol table of a common object file
.RE
.RE
.PP
(4) the function
.IR ldtbindex (3X)
which returns the 
index of a particular common object 
file symbol table entry
.RE
.PP
These functions are described in detail in their respective manual pages.
.PP
All the functions except
.IR ldopen ,
.I ldaopen
and
.I ldtbindex
return either
.BR \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 " or " \s-1FAILURE\s+1 ,
both constants defined in
.BR ldfcn.h .
.I Ldopen
and 
.I ldaopen
both return pointers to a
.BR \s-1LDFILE\s+1 " structure."
.SH MACROS
Additional access to an object file is provided through a set of macros
defined in
.BR ldfcn.h .
These macros parallel the standard
input\/output file reading and manipulating functions,
translating a reference 
of the
.B \s-1LDFILE\s+1
structure into a reference to its file descriptor field.
.PP
The following macros are provided:
.PP
.RS
LDFILE	\(**ldptr;
.PP
.nf
GETC(ldptr)
FGETC(ldptr)
GETW(ldptr)
UNGETC(c, ldptr)
FGETS(s, n, ldptr)
FREAD((char \(**) ptr, sizeof (\(**ptr), nitems, ldptr)
FSEEK(ldptr, offset, ptrname)
FTELL(ldptr)
REWIND(ldptr)
FEOF(ldptr)
FERROR(ldptr)
FILENO(ldptr)
SETBUF(ldptr, buf)
.RE
.fi
.PP
See the manual entries for the corresponding standard input/output library
functions for details on the use of these macros.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libld.a .
\}
.el \{\
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libld.a .
\}
.PP
.PP
.if !'\*p'' \{\
.IR intro (4)
describes
.IR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 " and " \s-1INCDIR\s+1 .
\}
.SH CAVEAT
The macro
.SM \f2FSEEK\f1
defined in the header file
.B ldfcn.h
translates into a call to the 
standard input/output function
.IR fseek (3S).
.SM \f2FSEEK\f1
should not be used to seek from the end of an archive file since
the end of an archive file may not be the same as the end of one of
its object file members!
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ie '\*p'' \{\
fseek(3S), ldahread(3X), ldclose(3X), ldfhread(3X),
ldlread(3X), ldlseek(3X), ldohseek(3X), ldopen(3X), ldrseek(3X), ldlseek(3X),
ldshread(3X), ldtbindex(3X), ldtbread(3X), ldtbseek(3X).
\}
.el \{\
fseek(3S), ldahread(3X), ldclose(3X), ldfhread(3X),
ldlread(3X), ldlseek(3X), ldohseek(3X), ldopen(3X), ldrseek(3X), ldlseek(3X),
ldshread(3X), ldtbindex(3X), ldtbread(3X), ldtbseek(3X), intro(5).
paths.h(4).
\}
.br
.I "Common Object File Format,"
by I. S. Law.
.\"	@(#)ldfcn.4	5.2 of 5/18/82
.\" @(#)$Header: /d2/3.7/src/man/trash/standard/u_man/man4/RCS/ldfcn.4,v 1.1 89/03/27 16:42:41 root Exp $
.\" $Log:	ldfcn.4,v $
Revision 1.1  89/03/27  16:42:41  root
Initial check-in for 3.7

.\" Revision 1.3  86/04/10  13:59:42  celia
.\" cosmetic
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  85/01/08  11:28:09  bob
.\" Changed \f[RIB] to \f[123].
.\" 
