'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)servers.4 1.1 85/12/28 SMI;
.TH SERVERS 4 "28 August 1985"
.SH NAME
servers \- inet server data base
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "servers file"  ""  "\fLservers\fP \(em inet server database"
.IX  "inet server database"  ""  "inet server database \(em \fLservers\fP"
The
.I servers
file contains the list of servers that
.IR inetd (1m)
operates.
For each server a single line should be present
with the following information:
.HP 10
name of server
.br
.ns
.HP 10
protocol
.br
.ns
.HP 10
server location
.PP
If the server is rpc based, then the name field should
be \f3rpc\fP, and following the server location are two
additional fields, one with the rpc program number, the
second with either a version number or a range of version
numbers.
.PP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or
tab characters.  A ``#'' indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.PP
The name of the server should be the official service
name as contained in 
.IR services (5).
The protocol entry is either udp or tcp.
The server location
is the full path name of the server program.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The following example is taken from the Sun UNIX system.
.sp
.nf
.ta \w'comsat\0\0'u +\w'udp\0\0'u +\w'xusrxetcxinxtelnetd\0\0'u +\w'100001\0\0'u
tcp	tcp	/usr/etc/in.tcpd
telnet	tcp	/usr/etc/in.telnetd
shell	tcp	/etc/in.rshd
login	tcp	/etc/in.rlogind
exec	tcp	/usr/etc/in.rexecd
tcp	udp	/usr/etc/in.ttcpd
syslog	udp	/usr/etc/in.syslog
comsat	udp	/usr/etc/in.comsat
talk	udp	/usr/etc/in.talkd
time	tcp	/usr/etc/in.timed
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.rstatd	100001	1-2
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.rusersd	100002	1
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.rwalld	100008	1
rpc	udp	/usr/etc/rpc.mountd	100005	1
.fi
.SH FILES
/etc/servers
.SH "SEE ALSO"
services(4), inetd(1m)
.SH BUGS
Because of a limitation on the number of open files,
this file must contain fewer than 27 lines.
