'\" t
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH BOOT 8
.SH NAME
boot \- startup procedures
.SH DESCRIPTION
The IRIS Workstation
.SM UNIX 
is started with
a two-stage process.
The first stage is a primary bootstrap
and the second stage loads the UNIX kernel.
The primary bootstrap
sets up memory management
and starts the PROM Monitor.
This is a simple command interpreter
through which each IRIS Workstation boot environment
may be accessed.
.PP
In the second stage,
a device is specified to the PROM Monitor
(see the table below)
followed by an optional pathname.
If no pathname is given,
a file named \f2defaultboot\fP
is searched for on the given device.
The PROM Monitor finds the file on the given device,
loads that file into the proper memory location,
and then transfers control of the program. 
Normal line editing characters may be used.
.PP
Here is a complete list of PROM Monitor commands.
.PP
.RS
.TS
center;
lw(1.5i) lw(3.0i).
h	T{
.fi
Display a list of
PROM Monitor commands.
T}
.sp 0.25
t	T{
.fi
Serial interface to host.
T}
.sp 0.25
n \f2[file]\f1	T{
.fi
Boot the IRIS Workstation
over a network.
T}
.sp 0.25
d \f2[file]\f1	T{
.fi
Boot the IRIS Workstation
from a disk.
T}
.sp 0.25
d \f2[pathname]/*\f1	T{
.fi
List the contents
of directory \f2pathname\f1.
T}
.sp 0.25
tb \f2[file]\f1	T{
.fi
Boot the IRIS Workstation
from a tape drive.
The file must be in
\f2cpio\f1 format.
T}
.sp 0.25
tb *	T{
.fi
List the contents
of a tape
in \f2cpio\f1 format.
T}
.sp 0.25
r	T{
.fi
Restart the
PROM Monitor.
T}
.TE
.RE
.PP
For example,
when the PROM Monitor prompt \f2iris>\fP is given,
type
.PP
.RS
iris> d
.RE
.PP
After UNIX has been booted,
it will be in single-user mode
and display a ``#'' prompt.
The file system should then be checked with
.IR fsck (1M).
Multi-user mode can be started
with the \f2multi\fP command
in response to the ``#'' prompt.
This will mount the \f2/usr\fP file system
and start certain daemons.
.SS "Device Specifications"
A device specification has the following form:
.PP
.RS
device(unit,offset)
.RE
.LP
where
.I device
is the type of the device to be searched,
.I unit
is the unit number of the device,
and 
.I offset
is the block offset of the file system on the device.
.PP
For example, the specification
.PP
.RS
md(0,119)
.RE
.LP
indicates unit 0,
and the file system found
starting at block 119.
.SH FILES
/defaultboot \- system code
.SH SEE ALSO
\f2IRIS Workstation Guide\fP
.br
date(1),
fsck(1M),
multi(1M).
