'\"macro stdmacro
.TH CRASH 8
.SH NAME
crash \- what to do when the system crashes
.SH DESCRIPTION
This entry gives at least a few clues about how to proceed if the
system crashes.
It can't pretend to be complete.
.PP
In restarting after a crash,
always bring up the system single-user,
as specified in
.IR boot (8).
Then
perform an
.IR fsck (1M)
on all file systems which could have been in use at the time
of the crash.
If any serious file system problems are found, they should be repaired.
When you are satisfied with the health of your disks,
check and set the date if necessary,
then come up multi-user.
.PP
To even boot \s-1UNIX\s+1 at all,
certain files (and the directories leading to them)
must be intact.
First,
the initialization program
.B /etc/init
must be present and executable.
For
.I init\^
to work correctly,
.BR /dev/console ,
.B /bin/sh
and
.B /bin/env
must be present.
If one of these does not exist, the symptom is best described as thrashing.
.I Init\^
will go into a
.I fork/exec\^
loop trying to create a
Shell with proper standard input and output.
The file
.B /etc/rc
should also be there and be executable;
the system will come up but
will not be fully initialized without it.
.PP
If you cannot get the system to boot,
a runnable system must be obtained from
a backup medium.
The root file system may then be doctored as
a mounted file system as described below.
If there are any problems with the root
file system,
it is probably prudent to go to a
backup system to avoid working on a
mounted file system.
.PP
.IR "Repairing disks" .
The first rule to keep in mind is that an addled disk
should be treated gently;
it shouldn't be mounted unless necessary,
and if it is very valuable yet
in quite bad shape, perhaps it should be copied before
trying surgery on it.
This is an area where experience and informed courage count for much.
.PP
.IR fsck (1M)
is adept at diagnosing and repairing file system problems.
It first identifies all of the files
that contain bad (out of range) blocks or
blocks that appear in more than one file.
Any such files are then identified by
name and
.I fsck\^
requests permission to remove them from the
file system.
Files with bad blocks should be removed.
In the case of duplicate blocks, all of the
files except the most recently modified
should be removed. The contents of the survivor
should be checked after the file system is repaired
to ensure that it contains the proper data.
(Note that running
.I fsck\^
with the
.B \-n
option will cause it to report all problems
without attempting any repair.)
.PP
.I fsck\^
will also report on incorrect link counts and
will request permission to adjust any that are
erroneous. In addition, it will reconnect any
files or directories that are allocated but have
no file system references to a ``lost+found'' directory.
Finally, if the free list is bad (out of range,
missing, or duplicate blocks)
.I fsck\^
will, with the operators concurrence, construct a new one.
.PP
.IR "Why did it crash" ?
.SM UNIX
types a message
on the console typewriter when it voluntarily crashes.
Here is the current list of such messages.
The message has the form ``panic:\ .\|.\|.'',
possibly accompanied by other information.
Left unstated in all cases
is the possibility that hardware or software
error produced the message in some unexpected way.
.TP 3
.B default_intr
An interrupt has occured for which there is no device driver.
.TP 3
.B "I/O err in swap"
While swapping a user process,
a hard error occured on the swap disk.
.TP 3
.B "parity error"
A parity error occured somewhere in the onboard memory.
A message will precede this diagnostic to indicate
where in physical memory the error occured.
Unfortunately,
UNIX can't diagnose the memory failure.
If the error persists,
the memory diagnostic should be used.
.TP 3
.B "iinit"
The system was not able to read the root file system.
This could either be a hardware or a software problem,
but it most likely means that
either the disk drive is damaged,
or the root file system
on the disk drive is damaged.
.PP
The following diagnostics indicate
that something is wrong
with the disk controller.
.RS
.nf
.B "dsd: couldn't start!"
.B "qicstart: couldn't start!"
.B "dsd: no status posted"
.B "dsdstatus"
.B "dsdstart unknown type"
.fi
.RE
.TP 3
.B "riomap"
The system attempted to issue a raw I/O request
which was larger than the CPU can physically handle.
.TP 3
.B "getmajor"
While attempting to boot,
the system configured a disk drive
which had no entry in the \f2bdevsw[]\fP array
(the array of block devices).
The system was incorrectly configured.
.TP 3
.B "out of memory during boot"
The system is too large to run in the given memory.
.PP
The following diagnostics indicate that something
is wrong with the buffer cache / inode tables.
.RS
.nf
.B "devtab"
.B "bflush: bad free list"
.B "no fs"
.B "no imt"
.B "dsdattach: geteblk() failed"
.fi
.RE
.TP 3
.B "swap error: swapping beyond process"
Something is wrong with the user memory management code.
.TP 3
.B "timeout table overflow"
The system attempted to put a time driven event on a queue,
and there was no room in the queue.
If this happens often,
then the system has been incorrectly configured.
.TP 3
.B "no procs"
The system decided that it had a process slot available for a fork,
and then redecided that it didn't.
If this happens often,
then the system has been incorrectly configured.
.TP 3
.B "init died!"
The \f2init\fP process was killed.
If done with a user program
or the Shell \f2kill\fP command,
then nothing is wrong.
If this happens during the boot procedure,
then something is wrong with the root file system.
.TP 3
.B "out of swap space"
Too many processes for the given swap space.
Try running a more modest number of processes.
.PP
The following diagnostics indicate
problems with the kernel.
.RS
.nf
.B "unexpected kernel trap"
.B "kernel address error"
.B "kernel bus error"
.B "defrasterfont: font too large"
.fi
.RE
.TP 3
.B "syscall"
The system attempted to do a system call,
which is not allowed.
The system was incorrectly configured.
.PP
The following diagnostics indicate
that the Ethernet hardware/software has a bug.
.RS
.nf
.B "nxpresent: cleared"
.B "xns_ttstart"
.fi
.RE
.TP 3
.B "panic recursion"
The system got a panic message
while trying to inform the console of a panic.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f2IRIS Workstation Guide\fP
.br
adb(1), fsck(1M), boot(8).
