'\"macro stdmacro
.TH AUTOCONF 7
.SH NAME
autoconf \- diagnostics from the autoconfiguration code
.SH DESCRIPTION
When UNIX bootstraps it probes the innards of the machine it is running
on and locates controllers, drives, and other devices, printing out
what it finds on the console.  This procedure is driven by a system
configuration table which is processed by the
.I config 
system call
and compiled into each kernel.
.PP
MULTIBUS devices are located by probing to see if their control-status
registers respond.  If not, then the autoconfigure code will print
out a message of the form ``\f2xx\f1 not installed''.  If the control
status register responds but the device cannot be correctly initialized,
a diagnostic warning will be printed on the console and the device
will not be available to the system. 
.PP
The variables \f2rootdev\f1 and \f2swapdev\f1 are used as prototypes
in the kernel
to specify where the system will find the root and swap devices, respectively.
As each disk drive is attached to its controller, the systems checks for
a match agains the \f2rootdev\f1 and \f2swapdev\f1 variables.
.PP
If the
given drive has a root partition on it (specified in the boot label)
and the same unit number as stored in \f2rootdev\f1 then it is chosen as
the potential root drive.  The \f3last\f1 such drive found is used as
the \f2rootdev\f1 (thus ordering of the \f2config\f1 file is important).
.PP
If the
given drive has a swap partition on it (specified in the boot label)
and the same unit number as stored in \f2swapdev\f1 then it is chosen as
the potential swap drive.  The \f3last\f1 such drive found is used as
the \f2swapdev\f1 (thus ordering of the \f2config\f1 file is important).
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3%s%d at mbio 0x%04x ipl %d\f1.  This message is printed when probing
a simple device or a controller.  It means that the device successfully
initialized itself (or lied about it anyway); is running at the printed
multibus I/O address (``mbio'') and will interrupt at priority
level ``ipl''.
.PP
\f3%s%d slave %d\f1.  The slave given drive (tape or disk) is attached
as the printed slave to the \f2previous\f1 controller printed.
.PP
\f3%s%d not installed\f1. The given device was not found on the multibus.
.PP
\f3%s%d dead\f1.  The given device responded to its multibus address,
but did not behave correctly.  This might mean something is broken,
or that two boards are wired with the same multibus i/o address.  Typically,
however, if two boards are mis address they won't probe at all, or the
machine will hang trying to access them.
.PP
\f3stray interrupt level %d\f1.  An interrupt occured for which there is
no interrupt service routine.  A related
message, \f3panic: default_intr\f2, will follow this message.
.PP
\f3root on %s%d%c\f1.  Once all the controllers and devices have been
probed, the autoconfigure routines will print out the chosen root device.
.PP
\f3swap on %s%d%c [%dK]\f1.  Once all the controllers and devices have been
probed, the autoconfigure routines will print out the chosen swap
device as well as it size.
