'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DSD 7
.SH NAME
dsd \- st-506 disk/tape/floppy controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller dsd0 at mb0 csr 0x7F00 priority 1 vector dsdintr
.br
.B "disk md0 at dsd0 drive 1 flags 0x00
.br
.B "disk md1 at dsd0 drive 2 flags 0x00
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a MULTIBUS st-506 disk and tape controller.
The driver software supports two winchester hard disk drives,
one qic-02 streaming tape drive, and one floppy drive.
This manual page documents the hard disk support.
See \f2qic\f1(7) for
information on the streaming tape support and \f2floppy\f1(7) for
the floppy support.
.PP
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0;
minor devices 8 through 15 refer to drive 1, etc.
The standard device names begin with ``md'' followed by
the drive number and then a letter a-h for partitions 0-7 respectively.
The character ? stands here for a drive number in the range 0-7.
.PP
The block files access the disk using the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.'
.PP
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.PP
The size of the various partitions supported by the driver in fact
are a function of the drive itself.  Present on each drive is a boot
label which contains the partitions sizes and locations.
.SH FILES
/dev/md[01][a-h] block files
.br
/dev/rmd[01][a-h] raw files
.SH SEE ALSO
autoconf(7),
qic(7),
floppy(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3panic: dsdattach: geteblk() failed\f1.  Can't happen. See a guru.
.br
\f3md%d (***No label***)\f1.  The named drive has no boot label and
thus cannot be used.
.br
\f3(%s Name: %s)\f1.  On a successful attach, the drive type is
printed out followed by its ``name'' (a user specifiable name).
.br
\f3md%d%c: %s err(%s) at %d/%d/%d retry:%d\f1
.br
\f3%d/%d/%d req%d atc%d\f1. A hard error of some sort occured.
.br
\f3dsdcmd: dsdbusy was not set to Zero(0)
.br
panic: dsd: no status posted
.br
dsd: cmd(%s), dev(%d), controller is hung on the bus
.br
panic: dsd: couldn't start!
.br
dsd: interrupt with empty queue
.br
dsd: zero status
.br
panic: dsdstatus
.br
dsdstatus: dsdcmd failure
.br
dsd: soft error: dev(%x)\f1. Any of the above errors indicates that
something is seriously wrong with the controller.
.SH BUGS
There are far too many printouts in the driver. There should be specific
messages for specific problems.
