'\"macro stdmacro
.TH FLOPPY 7
.SH NAME
floppy \- st-506 disk/tape/floppy controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller dsd0 at mb0 csr 0x7F00 priority 1 vector dsdintr
.br
.B "disk md0 at dsd0 drive 3 flags 0x01
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a MULTIBUS st-506 disk and tape controller.
The driver software supports 2 winchester hard disk drives,
one qic-02 tape drive, and one floppy.
This manual page documents the floppy support.
See \f2dsd\f1(7) for
information on the winchester disk support and \f2qic\f1(7) for
the streaming tape support.
.PP
The block files access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.'
.PP
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.PP
The minor device bits for the floppy device support several different
sizes and configurations:  single sided versus double sided; single
density versus double density; 256 byte sectors versus 512 byte sectors.
Each configuration can be combined, thus it is possible to use 256 byte
single sided double density floppys (it may not be tested though).
.SH FILES
/dev/mf0a	block device
.br
/dev/rmf0a	raw device
.SH SEE ALSO
autoconf(7),
qic(7),
dsd(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3mf%d: Write Protected\f1.  The floppy in the floppy drive is write
protected.
.PP
\f3mf%d: Is Diskette Formatted?\f1.  The controller is seriously confused
by the floppy in the drive. Try using a formatted floppy.
.PP
\f3%s on mf%d, slice %d\f1.  Usually proceeded by ``out of space'' when
unix runs out of space on the drive.
.PP
\f3mf%d%c: %s err(%s) at %d/%d/%d retry:%d %d/%d/%d req%d atc%d\f1.
A hard error of some sort occured.
.PP
\f3mf%d%c: cmd(%s), err(%s), physical block %d %d/%d/%d req%d atc%d\f1.
A hard error of some sort occured.
