'\"macro stdmacro
.TH IPH 7
.SH NAME
iph \- Interphase 2190 smd disk controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller iph0 at mb0 csr 0x7010 priority 5 vector ipintr
.br
.B "disk ip0 at iph0 drive 0
.br
.B "disk ip1 at iph0 drive 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a generic MULTIBUS smd disk controller.
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0;
minor devices 8 through 15 refer to drive 1, etc.
The standard device names begin with ``ip'' followed by
the drive number and then a letter a-h for partitions 0-7 respectively.
The character ? stands here for a drive number in the range 0-7.
.PP
The block files access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.'
.PP
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.PP
The size of the various partitions supported by the driver in fact
are a function of the drive itself.  Present on each drive is a boot
label which contains the partitions sizes and locations.
.SH FILES
/dev/ip[0-3][a-h] block files
.br
/dev/rip[0-3][a-h] raw files
.SH SEE ALSO
autoconf(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3ip%d (***No label***)\f1.  The named drive has no boot label and
thus cannot be used.
.br
\f3(%s Name: %s)\f1.  On a successful attach, the drive type is
printed out followed by its ``name'' (a user specifiable name).
The name can be defined in the standalone utility
\f3ipfex.\f1
.br
\f3ipintr: iptab.b_active == 0\f1.  A spurious interrupt from the
controller occured.
.br
\f3ipintr hard error(%x): %s block: %d cmd: %s\f1.  A hard error occured
while reading block %d.
.br
\f3ipcmd: timeout wait for status %x\f1.  While attempting to get
status from the controller, a timeout occured.  The controller is probably
hung.
.br
\f3ipcmd: status: %x error: %x\f1.  A hard error occured during a
non-interruptable command.
.br
\f3ipcmd: timeout waiting for cmd %s to complete\f1.  A command given
to the drive in a non-interrupt fashion timed out.
.br
\f3%s on ip%d, slice %d\f1.  Usually printed by unix prefixed with
the message ``out of space''.
