'\"macro stdmacro
.TH QIC 7
.SH NAME
qic \- st-506 disk/tape controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller dsd0 at mb0 csr 0x7F00 priority 1 vector dsdintr
.br
.B "tape md0 at dsd0 drive 0 flags 0x02
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a MULTIBUS ST-506 disk and tape controller.
The driver software supports 2 winchester hard disk drives,
one qic-02 tape drive, and one floppy.
This documents the tape support.
.PP
There is a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the tape
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.' Also, the \f3mtio\f1(7)
interface to the drive is provided.
.PP
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/rmt1	rewinding device
.br
/dev/rmt2	non rewinding device
.SH SEE ALSO
autoconf(7),
qic(7),
floppy(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3qic%d: No cartridge in drive\f1.  Can't write on nothing.
.br
\f3qic%d: Unit not ready\f1.  Something strange is going on.
.br
\f3qic%d: write protected\f1.  Tape must be writable if the drive
is opened for read/write or write.
.br
\f3qic%d: couldn't rewind on open\f1.
up the driver.
.br
\f3panic: qicstart: couldn't start!\f1.  Controller is probably wedged.
.br
\f3qic%d: Hard error cmd %s No status available\f1.  Something is wrong
with the tape drive such that the controller would hang if it attempted
to read the drive status.
.br
\f3%s on qic%d\f1.  Were one to actually mount a filesystem on the
tape drive, this is the message that would be printed if you ran out
of space on the filesystem proceeded by ``out of space''.
.br
\f3qic%d: cannot read the Tape Status\f1.  Another way of saying
that things are broken.
.br
\f3qic%d: cannot get Tape Status into memory\f1.  Yet another way of saying
that things are really gosh darn awfully broken.
.br
\f3qic%d: Couldn't write file mark %d\f1.  For some reason, the drive
was unable to write a file mark.
.br
\f3Failed %d files\f1.  While skipping forward %d files, the tape drive
returned an error.  Usually means that the tape does not contain %d files.
.br
\f3Failed %d records\f1.  While skipping forward %d records, the tape drive
returned an error.  Usually means that the tape does not contain %d records.
.br
.SH BUGS
There are far too many printouts in the driver.
More specific messages should be printed.
