'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SII 7
.SH NAME
sii\- Interphase Storager 2 esdi/st-506 disk/tape/floppy controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller sii0 at mb0 csr 0x7200 priority 5 vector siiintr
.br
.B "disk si0 at sii0 drive 0
.br
.B "disk si1 at sii0 drive 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a MULTIBUS esdi/st-506 disk and tape controller.
The driver software supports two winchester hard disk drives,
one qic-02 streaming tape drive, and one floppy drive.
This man page documents the hard disk support.
See \f2siq\f1(7) for
information on the streaming tape support and \f2sif\f1(7) for
the floppy support.
.PP
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0;
minor devices 8 through 15 refer to drive 1.
The standard device names begin with ``si'' followed by
the drive number and then a letter a-h for partitions 0-7 respectively.
The character ? stands here for a drive number in the range 0-7.
.PP
The block files access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.'
.PP
In raw I/O counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.PP
The size of the various partitions supported by the driver in fact
are a function of the drive itself.  Present on each drive is a boot
label which contains the partitions sizes and locations.
.SH FILES
/dev/si[01][a-h]     block files
.br
/dev/rsi[01][a-h]    raw files
.SH SEE ALSO
autoconf(7),
siq(7),
sif(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3md%d (***NO LABEL***)\f1.  The named drive has no boot label and
thus cannot be used.
.br
\f3(%s Name: %s)\f1.  On a successful attach, the drive type is
printed out followed by its ``name'' (a user specifiable name).
.br
\f3%s: hard error: %s, at: %d/%d/%d, cmd: %s\f1.  A hard error of some
type has occured.  The first string printed is the name of the device where
the error occured.  Next printed is a textual description
of the error, followed by the physical disk address where the error
occured.  Finally, the command which caused the error is printed.
