'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SIQ 7
.SH NAME
siq \- Interphase Storager 2 qic-02 tape controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "controller siq0 at mb0 csr 0x73fc priority 5 vector siqintr
.br
.B "tape sq0 at siq0 drive 0
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a MULTIBUS esdi/st-506 disk and tape controller.
The driver software supports 2 winchester hard disk drives,
one qic-02 tape drive, and one floppy.
This documents the tape support.
.PP
There is a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the tape
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files
conventionally begin with an extra `r.' Also, the \f3mtio\f1(7)
interface to the drive is provided.
.PP
In raw I/O, counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/nrsq0	non rewinding drive
.br
/dev/rsq0	rewinding drive
.SH SEE ALSO
autoconf(7),
sii(7),
sif(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f3(qic02 cartridge tape)\f1.  This is printed when the system configures
the tape drive.
.br
\f3%s: tape is in use\f1.  This message is printed if two processes
attempt to use the same tape drive.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: drive is busted\f1.  If for some reason a hard error occurs,
and the hard error cannot be reset, this message is printed.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: no tape cartridge in drive\f1.  A cartridge must be present
in the drive before i/o can be performed.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: tape is write protected\f1.  If the tape device is opened with
writing enabled, then the tape must be writable.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: drive is not on line\f1.  This normally can't happen.  If it does,
call field service.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: must be multiple of 512 bytes\f1.  All raw transfers must be
done in multiples of 512 bytes.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: can't start command\f1.  For some reason, the system cannot
send the controller a command.  Retry the operation and if that
fails, call field service.
Note that this message is printed
both to the console and to the terminal requesting the tape.
.br
\f3%s: hard error, cmd="%s" error="%s"\f1.  A hard error has
occured.  The first string printed is the name of the device where
the error occured.  This is followed by the command that failed and
the actual error message.  Note that this message is printed to
the console only.
.br
\f3%s: bad controller status (%x), csr=%x cmd=%x err=%x\f1
.br
\f3%s: can't read status\f1
.br
\f3%s: command start timeout, status=%x\f1.  These errors normally
mean a failing controller/drive.  Call field service.  Note that these
errors are printed only on the console.
