'\" t
.TH CC 1
.SH NAME
cc, pc, f77 \- C, Pascal and FORTRAN compilers for the 68000/68020
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cc
[ options ] files ...
.br
.B pc
[ options ] files ...
.br
.B f77
[ options ] files ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cc
is a general driver for the U\s-2NIX\s+2 C, Pascal and FORTRAN compilers 
for the 68000/68020.  It is
also available under the names
.I f77
and
.I pc.
The names are synonymous 
.I except
during the linking phase, when it is used to create the
appropriate run-time environment.
.I cc 
accepts many types of input files, determined by the file's suffix.
The highest form of input is language source:  
C (\f2.c\fP), Pascal (\f2.p\fP) or
FORTRAN (\f2.f\fP\^).
These are translated to assembler (in the case of C), to 
U\s-2NIX\s+2 object files (\f2.o\fP), 
and finally to an executable file called \f2a.out\fP.
Input to
.I cc
may consist of any of these types of files
and translation may be stopped at any point.
.PP
Translation proceeds as follows:
.TP 8
a)
Each
.IR .c ,
.I .p
and
.I .f
input is run through the C macro preprocessor
\f2cpp\fP.  In the case of Pascal source, 
.I cpp 
is given the
.B "\-p"
switch. This switch tells 
.I cpp
to ignore Pascal-style comments and do the
correct things with preprocessor control lines so that the
line numbers in the resultant Pascal file will be the same as
the original.
.TP 8
b)
The preprocessed C files are then run through the C compiler
.I ccom
and, if specified, 
the C optimizer
.I c2.
The resulting
.I .s
files are then assembled,
producing U\s-2NIX\s+2 binaries (\f2.o\fP).
.TP 8
c)
Preprocessed FORTRAN (\f2.f\^\^\fP) and Pascal (\f2.p\fP) files are run 
through the
appropriate SVS front end,
.I fortran
or 
.I pascal,
then through the code generator 
.I code,
and object code formatter
.I ulinker,
to produce a U\s-2NIX\s+2 binary (\f2.o\fP).
.TP 8
d)
Finally, all U\s-2NIX\s+2 object files are passed to
\f2ld\fP(1),
along with the U\s-2NIX\s+2 startup file
.I /lib/crt0.o,
and the appropriate libraries,
to produce a single executable named
\f2a.out\fP.
.PP
Preprocessed source files and assembler files are usually removed.
All U\s-2NIX\s+2 binaries (\f2.o\fP) 
are preserved, 
.B unless 
there was
a single source (\f2.f\fP, \f2.p\fP, or \f2.c\fP) file being compiled, no
previously-compiled binaries are being loaded, and the
compilation is continuing to an executable.  In this case, the single
binary file is not saved.
.PP
If C and FORTRAN files are mixed in a single executable, special
interface routines may need to be generated as described in Appendix C
of the \f2IRIS Workstation Guide, Series 2000\fP.
If C and Pascal procedures are mixed, the user should consult the
\f2SVS Pascal Reference Manual\fP for instructions on altering the external
procedure declarations in Pascal.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are interpreted by
.I "cc (f77,pc)."
Some options have meaning for only one of these languages.
(see
.IR ld (1)
for load-time options):
.TP 8
.B \-c
Suppress the loading phase of the compilation, and force
an object file to be produced even if only one source file is given.
.TP
.B \-g
Generate debugging information.
Currently, this does not have meaning when C is intermixed with
another language.  For FORTRAN and Pascal files, the
appropriate 
compiler will be called with the 
.B +d 
switch.  This causes
a symbol table to be produced for \f3each\f1 binary and placed
in a file with the suffix \f2odbg\fP.
When the load step is performed, the symbol tables for each object file
are combined and placed in a file named
\f2x.dbg\fP,
where
.I x
is the name of the final program.  For pure C programs, additional
symbol table information 
will be generated for 
.IR dbx (1).  
.TP
.BI \-l\^ x
Include lib\f2x\fP.a as a library which
.I ld
should search for undefined references.
.I ld
will look for the library first in the directory
.I lib,
then in
\f2usr/lib\fP, and finally in \f2usr/local/lib\fP relative
to the root of the library tree.  The root of the library
tree defaults to \f2/\fP, but may be set using the \f3\-ZR\fP
switch.
The string
.I x
may be more than one letter.
.TP
.B \-\^\^\-n
Normally,
.I cc
passes the
.B \-n
switch to
\f2ld\fP,
which causes it to load the program with shared text.  The
.B \-\^\^\-n
switch suppresses the passing of 
.B \-n 
to 
.I ld.
.TP
.B \-o\0\f2output\fP
Name the final output file \f2output\fP.  \f2output\fP is normally
an executable; however,
if a single input file is being translated to a \f2.s\fP or a \f2.o\fP 
file, the final output file will be named \f2output\fP, regardless of its type.
This provides a facility for naming an output file by other than the
default method of suffix-replacement.
.TP
.B \-p
Tell
.I ccom
to generate code to count subroutine calls for use with
\f2prof\^\^\fP(1).
FORTRAN and Pascal do not support profiling.
.TP
.B \-\^\^\-x
By default,
.I cc
passes the
.B \-x
flag to
\f2ld\fP,
in order to suppress local symbols from the final symbol table.  The
.B \-\^\^\-x
flag inhibits this default.  The 
.B \-\^\^\-x 
switch should not be used
in conjunction with the 
.B \-r 
switch.
.TP
.B \-C
Prevent the macro preprocessor from removing C style comments 
found in the source.  Such comments are 
.B always 
removed from Pascal programs.
.TP
.BR \-D\^ \f2name\=def\fP
.br
.ns
.TP
.BR \-D\^ \f2name\fP
Define the
.I name
to the preprocessor,
as if by
\f2#define\fP.  (There should be no blanks between the 
.B D 
and the
symbol to be defined.)
If no definition is given,
the name is defined as ``1''.
.TP
.B \-E
Run only the macro preprocessor
on the named C, Pascal and FORTRAN source
and send the result to the
standard output.
.TP
.BR \-I\^ \f2dir\fP
Look in directory
.I dir
for missing
.I #include
files.
Include files
whose names are surrounded by double quotes and
do not begin with `/' are always
first sought in the directory
of the input file,
then in directories named in
.I \-I
options,
then in
\f2/usr/include\fP.
Include files with names beginning with `/' are treated as absolute paths.
The directory of the input file is not used as a search path for
include files whose names are surrounded by pointed brackets.
(There should be no blanks between the directory name and the switch.)
.TP
.B \-L
Produce a FORTRAN listing of each FORTRAN source file.
FORTRAN listings have the
suffix
.I .l .
.TP
.BR \-O\^ \f2xx\fP
Invoke an
object-code improver on each C file.
.I xx
are the options to
\f2c2\fP.
Possible options are 
.B S 
(perform stack optimizations), 
.B P 
(remove
stackprobes), 
.B K 
(omit kernel optimizations).  Use of these
options is not recommended for the standard compilation environment.
(There should be no blanks between the switch and the options.)
.TP
.B \-P
Run only the macro preprocessor
on the named C, FORTRAN, and Pascal files,
and place the results on 
.I "file.i" .
.TP
.B \-S
Compile the named C files, leaving the
C assembly language output in files suffixed
.I .s .
.TP
.BR \-U\^ \f2name\fP
Remove any initial definition of
\f2name\fP. (There should be no blanks between U and the
name to be undefined.)
.TP
.B \-Zf
Cause
instructions for the floating-point accelerator to be generated.
Use of this
switch on systems which do NOT have the floating-point accelerator installed
will cause a run-time abort.  
Programs which expect to use the floating point accelerator must be
both compiled and loaded with 
.B \-Zf .
.TP
.B \-Zg
Load the program with the special files and libraries necessary for
IRIS graphics programs.  When this switch is used, the Graphics Library
.B "\-lgl"
and the appropriate math library 
is given by default.  
Special files must be loaded for using graphics with each 
source language.  Hence, 
.I cc
must be able to determine the combination of languages involved
in the link step.
If the compilation line specified 
.I f77,
a FORTRAN source file (with the extension 
.IR .f\^\^ ) 
.B or 
the
switch 
.B \-ZF 
is given, 
.I cc 
assumes that FORTRAN routines are present. In this case, 
the program is also loaded with
the FORTRAN graphics interface library
.B "\-lfgl" .
If the compilation line specified 
.I pc,
a Pascal source file (with the extension 
.IR .p ) 
.B or 
the switch 
.B \-ZP 
is given,
.I cc 
assumes that Pascal routines are present.  The program is
loaded with the special Pascal jump table (\f2/usr/lib/pjmptbl.o\fP).
.TP
.BR \-Zi\^ \f2filename\fP
Use the file named
.I filename
as the run-time startup, rather than the standard C run-time startup.
This may be useful for generating stand-alone programs.
(There should be no blanks between the filename and the switch.)
.TP
.B \-Zq
Time all subprocesses, and report these times on
.I stdout
at the end of the compilation.
.TP
.B \-Zr
Load the program for the remote graphics environment.  
If the source contains FORTRAN or \f2f77\fP has
been invoked,
the FORTRAN remote Graphics Library will be loaded, otherwise the
C remote Graphics Library will be loaded.
As does loading  the standard Graphics Library, 
loading the remote Graphics Library
automatically causes the math library
to be loaded.
If the program is a C program, the directory 
.I "/usr/include/rgl"
will be searched prior to 
.I "/usr/include"
for graphics header files.
.TP
.B \-Zv
Turn on
.I verbose
mode. In verbose mode,
the C compiler
.I ccom
will give additional diagnostics.
This includes such things as flagging any use of the C type
.I double,
and complaining about too many register declarations.
.TP
.B \-Zz
Print a trace of all
.I exec()
calls.
.TP
.B \-ZA
Pass the remainder of the string to
\f2as\fP.
Thus, the
.I cc
switch
.B \-ZA\^\-q
will pass \f2as\fP the switch
\f3\-q\fP.
.TP
.B \-ZC
Pass the remainder of the string to
\f2ccom\fP.
Thus, the
.I cc
switch
.B \-ZC\^\-v
will pass \f2ccom\fP the switch
\f3\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-ZF
Pass the remainder of the string to the
FORTRAN compiler front-end 
.I fortran.
Thus, the
.I cc
switch
.B \-ZF\^\+d
will pass 
.I fortran
the switch
\f3\+d\fP.  This switch (with or without a switch to pass to
the FORTRAN front-end) also informs 
.I cc 
that FORTRAN files were present in the compilation.  
.TP
.B \-ZN
Pass the \f3\-N\fP switch to \f2cpp\fP(1).  This switch causes 
\f2cpp\fP(1) to 
\f3NOT\f1 look in 
.I /usr/include 
for include files.
.TP
.B \-ZP
Pass the remainder of the string to the
Pascal compiler front-end 
.I pascal.
Thus, the
.I cc
switch
.B \-ZP\^\+d
will pass 
.I pascal
the switch
\f3\+d\fP.  This switch (with or without a switch to pass to
the Pascal front-end) also informs 
.I cc 
that Pascal files were present in the compilation.  
.I cc
cannot determine this unless it sees a 
.I .p 
file or the name
.I pc
is used.
.TP
.B \-ZR\0\f2libroot\fP
Pass the \f3-R\f2 libroot\fP switch to 
the loader (\f2ld\fP(1)).  This causes it to 
use the directory \f2libroot\fP as the
root of the tree for its search to find libraries specified by the \f3\-l\f2x\f1
method.  Relative to this library root, \f2ld\fP will successively
search for lib\f2x\fP.a
in \f2lib\fP, \f2usr/lib\fP, and \f2usr/local/lib\fP.  If no 
\f3\-ZR\fP switch
is given, the loader will use \f2/\fP as its default \f2libroot\fP.
.PP
Other flags are passed to \f2ld\fP.
The files may consist of any mix of C, object, FORTRAN, assembler,
binary or library files.
The files are passed to
.I ld,
if opted, after rearranging according to the file type,
to produce an executable program named
.I a.out
or that specified by the
.B \-o
option.  Files of unknown type (i.e., with an extension other
than \f2.c\fP, \f2.f\fP, \f2.o\fP, \f2.a\fP, \f2.p\fP,
or \f2.s\fP) are given to \f2ld\fP as if they had been previously
loaded (i.e., are in \f2a.out\fP format). The order of files of unknown type
in the load step is indeterminate.
.SH FILES
.TS
;
l l.
file.c	C source file
file.f	FORTRAN source file
file.p	Pascal source file
file.o	binary (relocatable) file
file.s	assembly file
a.out	executable file
/lib/ccom	C compiler
/lib/cpp	C preprocessor
/lib/crt0.o	run time startup
/lib/libc.a	C library
/usr/lib/libf.a	FORTRAN library
/usr/lib/libp.a	FORTRAN and Pascal library
/usr/lib/fortran20	FORTRAN front-end
/usr/lib/pascal20	Pascal front-end
/usr/lib/jcode20	FORTRAN code-generator
/usr/lib/jlinker	FORTRAN pre-linker
/bin/as20	68020 assembler
/bin/ld	linking loader
/usr/include	default include directory
/usr/lib/pjmptbl.o	Pascal graphics jump table and C string converter
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\f2U\s-2NIX\s+2 Programmer's Manual, Volume IIB,\f1 "as20 Reference
Manual", "C/FORTRAN Interface", "IRIS Floating Point".
.br
B. W. Kernighan and D. M. Ritchie,
\f2The C Programming Language\fP,
Prentice-Hall,
1978
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I "Programming in C\(ema Tutorial"
.br
D. M. Ritchie,
.I "C Reference Manual"
.br
.I "SVS FORTRAN Reference Manual"
.br
.I "SVS Pascal Reference Manual"
.br
as20(1),
ccom(1),
cpp(1),
ld(1),
extcentry(1),
mkf2c(1),
a.out(5)
.SH BUGS
Three bugs are currently outstanding in the C compiler system.  The first
bug is the result of the compiler running out of temporary registers when
compiling an expression.  This has been seen to occur in an expression such as
.I "junk[c].i += a"
and in certain bitfield assignment expressions
in a function which contains many register variables.  The compiler aborts
with the message
``expression causes compiler loop, try simplifying''.
Rather than to reserve an additional register for the compiler's internal use,
it has been left to the user to alleviate this problem by reducing the 
number of data registers being
used in this instance to five or fewer.  
.PP
The second bug occurs when using the optimizer 
.I c2.
In certain situations, the optimizer gets confused as to the boundary between
functions when optimizing functions which are declared as 
.I static.
This can result in optimizing away necessary register save/restore code at
function entry and exit.  
Although the problem occurs rarely even in conjunction with such declarations,
users are currently warned against declaring
functions as 
.I static
when using the optimizer. 
.PP
The third bug occurs when passing an autoincremented (or autodecremented)
bit field to a function, as in
.I "foo(a.i++),"
where 
.I i 
is a bitfield element of structure 
.I foo.
In some cases, the compiler will autoincrement the bitfield correctly,
but pass the incorrect value to \f2foo\fP.  The value may have little or
no relationship to the true value of
.I "a.i"
either before or after autoincrementing.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by C, FORTRAN, and Pascal are intended to be
self-explanatory.
Occasional messages may be produced by the assembler
or loader.
