'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ENVIRON 5 
.SH NAME
environ \- user environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extern char **environ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
An array of strings called the ``environment'' is
made available by
.IR exec (2)
when a process begins.
By convention these strings have the form
name \= value .
The following names are used by various commands:
.TP "\w'\s-1LOGNAME\s+1\ \ 'u"
\s-1PATH\s+1
The sequence of directory prefixes that
.IR sh (1), 
.IR time (1),
.IR nice (1),
etc.,
apply in searching for a file known by an incomplete path name.
The prefixes are separated by ':'.
.br
.IR login (1)
sets :
.PD 0
.TP
\&
.RS 2.5i
\s-1PATH\s+1=:/bin:/usr/bin
.RE
.PD
.TP
\s-1HOME\s+1
A user's login directory, set by
.IR login (1)
from the password file
.IR passwd (4).
.TP
\s-1TERM\s+1
The kind of terminal for which output is to be prepared.
This information is used by commands, such as
.I nroff,
.I more,
or
.I vi,
which may exploit special terminal capabilities.
See
\f2termcap\fP(4) and \f2tset\fP(1)
for a list of terminal types.
.TP
\s-1SHELL\s+1
The file name of the user's login shell.
.TP
\s-1TERMCAP\s+1
The string describing the terminal in \s-1TERM\s+1,
or the name of the termcap file, see
.IR termcap (4).
.TP
\s-1EXINIT\s+1
A startup list of commands read by
.IR ex (1),
.IR edit,
and
.IR vi (1).
.TP
\s-1USER\s+1
The login name of the user.
.TP
\s-1LOGNAME\s+1
The login name of the user.
.TP
\s-1MAIL\s+1
The user's mailbox.
.TP
\s-1TZ\s+1
The user's time zone.
.PP
Further names may be placed in the environment by
the
.I export
command and name\=value arguments in
.IR sh (1),
or by the
.I setenv
command if you use
.IR csh (1).
Arguments may also be placed in the environment at the point of an
.IR exec (2).
It is unwise to conflict with
certain 
.IR sh (1)
variables that are frequently exported by
``.profile'' files:
\s-1MAIL, PS1, PS2, IFS\s+1.
.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1), ex(1), login(1), mail(1), sh(1), tset(1), exec(2),
system(3S), TZ(4), termcap(4), tty(7).
.\"	@(#)environ.4	5.1 of 10/23/83
