'\"macro stdmacro
.if t .ds i ''
.if n .ds i ""
.TH MV 5
.SH NAME
mv \- a troff macro package for typesetting view graphs and slides
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mvt
[
.B \-a
] [ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B troff
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-rX1
]
.B \-mv
[ options ] [ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This package makes it easy to typeset view graphs
and projection slides in a variety of sizes.
A few macros (briefly described below) accomplish most
of the formatting tasks needed in making transparencies.
All of the facilities of
.IR troff (1),
.IR cw (1),
.IR eqn (1),
and
.IR tbl (1)
are available for more difficult tasks.
.PP
The output can be previewed on most terminals, and,
in particular, on the Tektronix 4014,
as well as on the Versatec printer.
For these two devices, specify the
.B \-rX1
option
(this option is automatically specified by the
.IR mvt
command\-q.v.\-when that command is invoked with the
.B \-T4014
or
.B \-Tvp
options).
To preview output on other terminals, specify the
.B \-a
option.
.PP
The available macros are:
.nr x \w#\f3.SW \|\fP#u
.TP "\w#\f3\&.DV\fP\ \f1[\fPa\f1]\fP\ \f1[\fPb\f1]\fP\ \f1[\fPc\f1]\fP\ \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP\ \ #u"
.BI \&.VS "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Foil-start macro;
foil size is to be 7\*i\^\(mu7\*i;
.I n\^
is the foil number,
.I i\^
is the foil identification,
.I d\^
is the date;
the foil-start macro resets all parameters (indent, point size, etc.)
to initial default values, except for the values of
.I i\^
and
.I d\^
arguments
inherited
from a previous foil-start macro;
it also invokes the
.B \&.A
macro (see below).
.IP
The naming convention for this
and the following eight macros is that the first character of the name
.RB ( V
or
.BR S )
distinguishes between view graphs and slides, respectively,
while the second character indicates whether the foil is square
.RB ( S ),
small wide
.RB ( w ),
small high
.RB ( h ),
big wide
.RB ( W ),
or big high
.RB ( H ).
Slides are ``skinnier'' than the corresponding view graphs:
the ratio of the longer dimension to
the shorter one is larger for slides than for view graphs.
As a result, slide foils can be used for view graphs, but not vice versa;
on the other hand, view graphs can accommodate
a bit more text.
.TP
.BI \&.Vw "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 7\*i wide \(mu 5\*i high.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \&.Vh "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 5\*i\^\(mu7\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.VW "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 7\*i\^\(mu5.4\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.VH "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 7\*i\^\(mu9\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.Sw "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 7\*i\^\(mu5\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.Sh "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 5\*i\^\(mu7\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.SW "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 7\*i\^\(mu5.4\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.SH "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPn\f1]\fP \f1[\fPi\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.VS ,
except that foil size is 7\*i\^\(mu9\*i.
.TP
.BI \&.A "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPx\f1]\fP"
Place text that follows at the first indentation level (left margin);
the presence of
.I x\^
suppresses the \(12 line spacing from the preceding text.
.TP
.BI \&.B "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPm \f1[\fPs\f1] ]\fP"
Place text that follows at the second indentation level;
text is preceded by a mark;
.I m\^
is the mark (default is a large bullet);
.I s\^
is the increment or decrement to the point size of the mark
with respect to the
.I prevailing\^
point size
(default is 0);
if
.I s\^
is 100, it causes the point size of the mark to be the same as that of the
.I default\^
mark.
.TP
.BI \&.C "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPm \f1[\fPs\f1] ]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.B ,
but for the third
indentation level;
default mark is a dash.
.TP
.BI \&.D "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPm \f1[\fPs\f1] ]\fP"
Same as
.BR \&.B ,
but for the fourth indentation level;
default mark is a small bullet.
.TP
.BI \&.T "\h#|\nxu#string"
.I String\^
is printed as an over-size, centered title.
.TP
.BI \&.I "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPin\f1]\fP \f1[\fPa \f1[\fPx\f1] ]\fP"
Change the current text indent (does not affect titles);
.I in\^
is the indent (in inches unless dimensioned, default is 0);
if
.I in\^
is signed, it is an increment or decrement;
the presence of
.I a\^
invokes the
.B \&.A
macro (see below)
and passes
.I x\^
(if any)
to it.
.TP
.BI \&.S "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPp\f1]\fP \f1[\fPl\f1]\fP"
Set the point size and line length;
.I p\^
is the point size (default is ``previous'');
if
.I p\^
is 100, the point size reverts to the
.I initial\^
default for the current foil-start macro;
if
.I p\^
is signed, it is an increment or decrement
(default is 18 for
.BR \&.VS ,
.BR \&.VH ,
and
.BR \&.SH,
and 14 for the other foil-start macros);
.I l\^
is the line length (in inches unless dimensioned;
default is 4.2\*i for
.BR \&.Vh ,
3.8\*i for
.BR \&.Sh ,
5\*i for
.BR \&.SH ,
and 6\*i for the other foil-start macros).
.TP
.BI \&.DF "\h#|\nxu#n \|f \|\f1[\fPn \|f .\^.\^.\f1]\fP"
Define font positions;
may not appear within a foil's input text (i.e.,
it may only appear after all the input text for a foil, but before the
next foil-start macro);
.I n\^
is the position of font
.IR f ;
up to four
.RI `` "n\ \|f\^" ''
pairs may be specified;
the first font named becomes the
.I prevailing\^
font;
the initial setting is
.RB ( H
is a synonym for
.BR G ):
.IP
      \&.DF  1  H  2  I  3  B  4  S
.TP
.BI \&.DV "\h#|\nxu#\f1[\fPa\f1]\fP \f1[\fPb\f1]\fP \f1[\fPc\f1]\fP \f1[\fPd\f1]\fP"
Alter the vertical spacing between indentation levels;
.I a\^
is the spacing for
.BR \&.A ,
.I b\^
is for
.BR \&.B ,
.I c\^
is for
.BR \&.C ,
and
.I d\^
is for
.BR \&.D ;
all non-null arguments must be dimensioned;
null arguments leave the corresponding spacing unaffected;
initial setting is:
.IP
      \&.DV  .5v  .5v  .5v  0v
.TP
.BI \&.U "\h#|\nxu#str1 \f1[\fPstr2\f1]\fP"
Underline
.I str1\^
and concatenate
.I str2\^
(if any) to it.
.PD
.PP
The last four macros in the above list do not cause a break;
the
.B \&.I
macro causes a break only if it is invoked with more than one argument;
all the other macros cause a break.
.PP
The macro package also recognizes the following upper-case synonyms
for the corresponding lower-case
.I troff\^
requests:
.RS .2i
\&.AD  .BR  .CE  .FI  .HY  .NA  .NF  .NH  .NX  .SO  .SP  .TA  .TI
.RE
.PP
The
.B Tm
string produces the trademark symbol.
.PP
The input tilde
.RB (\^ ~ \^)
character is translated into a blank on output.
.PP
See the user's manual cited below for further details.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.v
.br
/usr/lib/macros/vmca
.SH SEE ALSO
cw(1), eqn(1), mmt(1), tbl(1), troff(1).
.br
.I "A Macro Package for View Graphs and Slides\^"
by T.\ A.\ Dolotta and D.\ W.\ Smith.
.SH BUGS
The
.B \&.VW
and
.B \&.SW
foils are meant to be 9\*i wide by 7\*i high,
but because the typesetter paper is generally only 8\*i
wide, they are printed 7\*i wide by 5.4\*i high
and have to be enlarged by a factor of 9\(sl7 before use as view graphs;
this makes them less than totally useful.
.\"	@(#)mv.5	5.1 of 10/15/83
