bfs/bfs_alloc.c		optional bfs
bfs/bfs_bmap.c		optional bfs
bfs/bfs_dir.c 		standard
bfs/bfs_inode.c		optional bfs
bfs/bfs_mount.c		optional bfs
com/com_dir.c 		standard
com/com_fio.c		standard
com/com_inode.c		standard
com/com_nami.c		standard
com/com_pipe.c		standard
com/com_pncc.c		standard
com/com_rdwr.c		standard
debug/dbg_assert.c	optional debug
debug/dbg_flags.c	optional debug
debug/dbg_param.c	optional debug
debug/dbg_printf.c	optional debug
efs/efs_alloc.c		optional efs
efs/efs_bit.c 		optional efs
efs/efs_bmap.c 		optional efs
efs/efs_dir.c		optional efs2
efs/efs_inode.c 	optional efs
efs/efs_mount.c 	optional efs
efs/efs_subr.c 		optional efs
gl0/conio.c		optional glzero
gl0/mouse.c		optional glzero
gl1/blink.c		optional glone
gl1/conio.c		optional glone
gl1/dials.c		optional glone
gl1/fbc.c		optional glone device-driver
gl1/font.c		optional glone
gl1/ge.c		optional glone device-driver
gl1/grsys.c		optional glone
gl1/kb.c		optional glone
gl1/kgl.c		optional glone device-driver
gl1/mouse.c		optional glone device-driver
gl1/term.c		optional glone
gl1/textport.c		optional glone
gl1/win.c		optional glone
gl2/mouse.c		optional gltwo
gl2/unix_gr.c		optional gltwo
gl2/win.c		optional gltwo
gl2/sgigsc.c		optional sgigsc
gl2/hack.c		optional sgigsc
net/af.c		optional tcp
net/if.c		optional tcp
net/if_loop.c		optional loop
net/netisr.c		optional tcp
net/raw_cb.c		optional tcp
net/raw_usrreq.c	optional tcp
net/route.c		optional tcp
netinet/if_ether.c	optional ether
netinet/in.c		optional tcp
netinet/in_pcb.c	optional tcp
netinet/in_proto.c	optional tcp
netinet/ip_icmp.c	optional tcp
netinet/ip_input.c	optional tcp
netinet/ip_output.c	optional tcp
netinet/raw_ip.c	optional tcp
netinet/tcp_debug.c	optional tcp
netinet/tcp_input.c	optional tcp
netinet/tcp_output.c	optional tcp
netinet/tcp_subr.c	optional tcp
netinet/tcp_timer.c	optional tcp
netinet/tcp_usrreq.c	optional tcp
netinet/udp_usrreq.c	optional tcp
nfs/nfs_dir.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_fio.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_inode.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_mount.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_nami.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_compat.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_rdwr.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_server.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_subr.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_xdr.c		optional nfs
rpc/auth_kern.c		optional nfs
rpc/authu_prot.c	optional nfs
rpc/clnt_kudp.c		optional nfs
rpc/kudp_fast.c		optional nfs
rpc/rpc_prot.c		optional nfs
rpc/subr_kudp.c		optional nfs
rpc/svc.c		optional nfs
rpc/svc_auth.c		optional nfs
rpc/svc_auth_u.c	optional nfs
rpc/svc_kudp.c		optional nfs
rpc/xdr.c		optional nfs
rpc/xdr_array.c		optional nfs
rpc/xdr_mbuf.c		optional nfs
rpc/xdr_mem.c		optional nfs
socket/sys_socket.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_dom.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_43.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_proto.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_soc.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_soc2.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_sys.c	optional tcp
socket/uipc_usr.c	optional unixdomain
streams/clone.c		standard
streams/sduart.c	standard device-driver
streams/spty.c		optional pty
streams/strcall.c	optional ustrm
streams/strcallsub.c	standard
streams/strconf.c	standard
streams/stream.c	standard
streams/streamio.c	standard
streams/stty_ld.c	standard
sys/acct.c		standard
sys/clock.c		standard
sys/compat.c		optional tcp
sys/fio.c		standard
sys/fstyp.c		standard
sys/fs_bio.c		standard
sys/fs_conf.c		standard
sys/fs_dsort.c		standard
sys/fs_flock.c		standard
sys/fs_inode.c		standard
sys/fs_mount.c		standard
sys/fs_nami.c		standard
sys/fs_subr.c		standard
sys/ipc.c		standard
sys/kern_mbuf.c		optional tcp
sys/lock.c		standard
sys/main.c		standard
sys/malloc.c		standard
sys/msg.c		standard
sys/panic.c		standard
sys/prof.c		optional prof
sys/sem.c		standard
sys/shm.c		standard
sys/sig.c		standard
sys/slp.c		standard
sys/subr.c		standard
sys/subr_rmap.c		standard
sys/sys1.c		standard
sys/sys2.c		standard
sys/sys3.c		standard
sys/sys4.c		standard
sys/sysent.c		standard
sys/tty_ld1.c		optional xns
sys/tty_linesw.c	optional xns
sys/tty_clist.c		optional xns
sys/tty_partab.c	optional xns
sys/tty_subr.c		optional xns
sys/tty_sys.c		standard
sys/utssys.c		standard
vm/vm_drum.c 		standard
vm/vm_mem.c 		standard
vm/vm_misc.c		standard
vm/vm_mon.c 		standard
vm/vm_page.c 		standard
vm/vm_proc.c 		standard
vm/vm_pt.c 		standard
vm/vm_sched.c 		standard
vm/vm_subr.c 		standard
vm/vm_sw.c 		standard
vm/vm_swap.c 		standard
vm/vm_swp.c 		standard
vm/vm_text.c 		standard
